V039 Dongba 东坝 1. Village settlement Dongba village was originally called Dongfen 东汾. Dongba is part of the Dongba Administrative Village 东坝行政村. Dongba is divided into four neighborhoods: Xinxing 新兴, Lianfa 连发, Hou menli 后门里 and Meilan 美兰. The population is approximately 1400 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. There is also duck breeding and poultry raising. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There are also twenty Huang 黄 households, twenty Gu 顾 households, one Zhuo 卓and one Zhang 张 household. The Lin claim to have originated from Hui county 辉县 in Henan province 河南. In the past, the village had a Lin ancestral hall 林氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Dongfenjing 东汾境 Muhuagong 木华宫, Yingxing lishê 应兴里社: The main gods are: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Yangzici 仰紫祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 3) Yunlouan 云楼庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lüma 吕妈, and Xiangu 仙姑 are taken on a procession around the village. Lanterns go on procession around its territory. On 1/23, on the last night of Yuanxiao 末夜元宵, candles are lit 点喜蜡, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are sometimes invited to conduct rites. Funding is raised on a per capita basis by the village as a whole. 
