V040 Xiquantou 溪泉头 1. Village settlement Xiquantou was originally called Chongxi 冲溪. Xiquantou is part of the Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. Xiquantou village has a population of 335 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. There are also the minor surname groups Yang 杨, Lin 林, He 何, Fang 方, and Zhu 朱. The village is divided into the two neighborhoods of Dingqiao 顶桥 and Xiaqiao 下桥. 3. Village temples 1) Shaoxing lishê 绍兴里社 is located in Xiaqiao 下桥. Main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. This is the main temple of the Xidong three village ritual alliance. 2) Xianyingtan 显应坛, Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Huban daye 虎班大神. 3) Longxitang 龙溪堂 is located in Xiaqiao 下桥. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and the secondary gods are as follows: Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 179 initiates are claimed in SJCDCB, 1992:5. 4) Longxingshê 隆兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Longxingci 龙兴祠 is located in Dingqiao 顶桥: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Baihaoan 白毫庵 was rebuilt in 1958. (PTZJZ, 1992:199) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Shaoxing lishê 绍兴 里社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 1/18 the gods of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社 are taken on procession around the village. These events are organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. On these days opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Xiaqiao 下桥. 3/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shaoxing lishê 绍兴里社 is organized by Xiaqiao 下桥. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社is organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. The village as a whole, or a particular temple and it’s community or lineage group organizes the event. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
