V079 Shanxiang 善乡 1. Village settlement The four jia ritual alliance of Shanxiang is located alongside the Shangxiaqu main channel of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. This area was part of the Shanxiangpu 善乡舖 (police/defense unit) of Nanlili 南力里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Qianzhang 前张 and Gaocen 高涔. In the Qing the village of Xiawen 下问 divided off. Nowadays all the natural villages have merged into a continuous mass, all administered by the Shanxiang Administrative Village 善乡行政村. The current overall population is over 3000. The local temple ritual system is divided into the four jia of Qianzhang 前张, Xiazhang 下张, Xibian 溪边, and Goutou 沟头. There are around twenty Christian families in Shanxing. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 makes up 80% of the population. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Kang 康. It is said that the ancestors of the Zheng emigrated from Xiaban 下坂 in Huangshi 黄石 There currently exists a Zheng ancestral hall which is used for the Laorenhui (elderly association) 老人会 of the village. In the Ming dynasty the Zheng lineage produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and five Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates), and so they were the pre-eminent local lineage. In Shanxing four jia ritual alliance the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Shanxing four jia ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 3. Village temples 1) Mingshangong 名山宫 (described above) is the main temple for the four jia associations of Shanxiang. It is also the main overall temple of the Lingyun Upper Eighteen village ritual alliance 凌云上 十八乡总宫 (see the discussion of the Nanyang irrigation system above). Two stelae are preserved in the temple, the Guangxu 30 (1904) 重修名山神 应庙碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Divine Response Temple of Mingshan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:355, No. 319) and the Xuantong 3 (1911) 名山神应庙前栏杆碑誌 (Inscribed statement on the ballustrade in the front of the Divine Response Temple of Mingshan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:359, No. 323) 2) Shanxianjing Xinanshê 善乡境溪南社 belongs to Qianzhang 前张 and Xibian 溪边, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Huoguang dadi 火官大帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公(鲁部大神), Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Nan jiangjun 男将军, and Nü jiangjun 女将军. 3) Zhengfushê 正福社 (Qianzhang lishê 前张里社), belongs to Xiazhang 下张 and Goutou 沟头. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Shanqingtang 善庆堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Qiongyutang 琼玉堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Li xianshi 李先师 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 6) Shihudian 石湖殿 (Zhanggongdong 张公洞) is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The secondary god is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 7) Enguangting 恩光亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and the secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 8) Shanxiantang 善现堂 was built in Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:220) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9 villagers takes the gods of the Xinanshê 溪南社 on a procession. On 1/15 the gods of the Zhengfushê 正福社 are taken on procession. On 1/26–28, during the final evenings of the Yuanxiao festival 末晚元宵, the gods of the Mingshan gong 名山宫 are taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed for two days. Five Three in One scripture masters 经师 and one drummer are invited for one afternoon of rites. The men of the village are divided into ten groups, each having fifty-six people. Four directors are selected each year to organize the ritual activities. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The celebration of Huoguang dadi 火官大帝 is held as part of the final evening festivities of Yuanxiao 尾晚元宵. Two days of opera are performed. 2/16: 7/16: 7/23: 8/8–9: 8/12: 8/16: 8/23: 9/12: 11/25:The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. Qianzhang 前张 village invites Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch opera for two days. Xibian 溪边 village invites Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch opera for two days. The celebration of Zhengfushe’s 尊主明王 Zunzhu mingwang 正福 社 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Xiazhang village 下张 invites Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch opera for two days. The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. The celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is held with two days of opera. To mark the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts, Mulian 目莲戏 marionette plays are performed. Dongjiao liucun (Dongjia six village ritual alliance) 东郊六村 The Dongjiao six village alliance is located along the Shangxiaqu main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Xili Dongniepu 西利东皋铺 police/defense unit) of the Nanlili sub-canton 南力里. In the Ming, this area had the village of Donggao 东皋, but in the Qing the villages of Donggou 东沟, Xili 西利 and Houli 后利 branched off. Currently the area includes six natural villages: Dongcuo 东厝, Xili 西利, Xiating 下亭, Dingsong 顶宋, Houli 后利 and Songxia 下宋, all of which are under the administration of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire cluster of villages has approximately 5000 people. The main livelihood is rice agriculture. Other livelihoods include cash crops such as sugarcane, tomatoes and vegetables. Hushangong 壶山宫 of Xiating 下亭 village contains the altar of the Liantang shangshê 莲塘书社. This is the main temple for the six village ritual alliance of Dongjiao. The temple was built during the Ming Hongwu period (1368–1398) and was restored during the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850), and then was rebuilt in 1991. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Each year with an intercalary second lunar month, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 
