V120 Jindun 金墩 1. Village settlement Jindun is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Jindun currently has more than 840 people. Agriculture is their main livelihood. 2. Surname groups Surname groups include the Huang 黄 (more than 60 households), Chen 陈 (20 households), Zheng 郑 (15 households), Li 李 (8 households), Qiu 邱 (2 households), Fang 方 (5 households). The Huang came from the Huangxia village 黄霞村 of the Hanjiang area 涵江区, and branched out to Xicuo 西厝 of Shaban 沙阪. There originally was a lineage genealogy 族谱, but it went missing. Four fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples 1) Jindunjing Xixingshê 金墩境西兴社, Jindungong 金墩宫: Rebuilt in Qing Guangxu 21 (1895), the temple was renovated in 1987. Middle altar: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Huilongtan 回龙坛 is dedicated to Linshui furen 临水夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Hualongan 化龙庵: Middle altar: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left: Weituo tianzun 韦驮天尊. Right: Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨. Middle of front: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Jishantang 积善堂 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄. 5) Guangming temple 广明寺 (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 6) Wanshn temple 万善寺 was built in Guangxu 32 (1906) and was rebuilt in 1975. (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions In the afternoon of 1/11, horses are ridden into the shê and all the neighborhoods of the entire village are inspected. Gods including Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公 元帅 go on procession, carried in sedan chairs by young men who recently got married. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. In the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi of Gucheng gong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 11/17: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime is conducted at Jishantang 积善堂. 
