V133 Xiadai 下埭 1. Village settlement Xiadai is managed by the Xiadai Administrative Village 下埭行政村. Xiadai village currently has more than 2300 people. Xiadai is divided into two neighborhoods: Dongzhi 东至 and Xizhi 西至. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhou 周, Lin 林 and the Wu 武. According to the survey data from 1993, there are more than 1500 of the Zhou surname group, making up approximately 30% of the total population, and more than 500 of the Lin surname group, and more than 150 of the Wu surname group. The Zhou emigrated from Qingpu 清浦 and are divided into six branches. They originally had an ancestral hall, but it has been converted into a school. Their genealogy is in Qingpu 清浦. The Lin emigrated from Chizhu 赤柱 of Putian 莆田, and are divided into two branches: Qianlin 前林 and Houlin 后林. The Weng emigrated from Zhanglin 樟林 of Quqiao 渠桥. They have not divided into lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Xiadaijing Jinshangong下埭境金山宫 branched out from the Fushangong 福山宫, and is the main temple for the village. Originally built during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), it was rebuilt both during the Qianlong period (1736–1795) and in 1989. Middle: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Denggong yuanshuai 邓公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiegong yuanshuai 铁公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Linshui furen 淋水夫人, Lindan furen 淋丹夫人, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Xiadaijing Wenxingshushê 下埭境文兴书社, Wenchang shuyuan 文昌 书院 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wuxian faye 五显 法爷, Chensheng faye 陈圣法爷, Huangsheng faye 黄圣法爷, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1205 initiates. 4) Baoshengshê 保盛社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Xinxianshê 新贤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen后土夫人. 6) Longdetan 隆德坛: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huangshêren 黄舍人, Baisheren 白舍人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tongziban 童子班, Daye 大爷. 7) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. 8) Ruicaoan 瑞草庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Zhou 周, Wu 武 and Jin 金 of Dongzhi 东至 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 1/13, the Lin 林 of Baoshengshê 宝胜社 of Xizhi 西至 carry their shê-altar incense burners to each of their households to xingdao 行道. Fufan 福饭 (blessed rice) is distributed to each household. On 1/14, the Lin 林 of Xingxian shê 兴贤社 of Xizhi 西至 take their shê incense burners to each of their households to xingdao 行道. Fufan 福饭 (blessed rice) is distributed to each household. On 1/29–2/1, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 are invited to go on procession around the entire village. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. People take turns to be the host (Fushou) according to their age. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for one day. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two day. These events are organized by miscellaneous surnames group 杂姓. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lin 林 of Xizhi 西至. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the second branch of the Zhou 周. The birthday celebration of Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fifth branch of the Zhou 周. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for one day. 7/23: 8/12: 9/20: 10/29: 11/16: 
