V134 The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fourth branch of the Zhou 周. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wenxing shushê 文兴书社. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinxianshê 新贤社. Opera is performed for two days. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 at Ruichao’an 瑞草庵. Marionette plays are performed. The birthday celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lin 林 of Xizhiwei 西至尾. Xili 西利 1. Village settlement Xili is managed by the Xili Administrative Village 西利行政村. Xili village has approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 make up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Tang 唐 and the Dai 戴. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾, and are divided into six lineage branches. Currently, only the first, second, fourth and sixth branch exists. The sixth branch makes up 80% of the Li population, and has two ancestral halls. The Li genealogy is in Yangwei 洋尾. Each year, four people take turns according to age to be the Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Xilijing Xianxinggong 西利境显兴宫 was taken apart in 1958 for the smelting of steel and metal, but it has been rebuilt recently. Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qiwei muhua niangma 七位木花娘妈. On the side altars: Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯 (Zhubajie 猪八戒), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xilijing Yongqingshê 西利境永庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯, Yinglie shengwang 英烈 圣王. 3) Sanyi tang 三一堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Side altars: Jindaren 金大人, Kongdaren 孔大人. 4) Xilai chansi 西来禅寺: Originally subsidiary to Guanghuasi 广化寺, it has been rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Dizangwang 地藏王, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the gods of Yongqing shê 永庆社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 of Hushan mountain 壶公山 to invite the incense 请香 of the Jade Emperor back to their village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Opera is performed for two days. 4/23: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Marionette plays are performed. 5/16: Villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 of Hushan mountain 壶公山 to invite the incense 请香 of the Jade Emperor back to their village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Qiwei muhua shengmu 七位木花圣母. Each household prepares flowers and burns incense. Opera is performed for two days. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. 
