V143 Huazhong 华中 1. Village settlement Huazhong is managed by the Huazhong Administrative village 华中行政村. Huazhong was originally divided into Zhongjing 中境, Zhongle 中乐, Donghu 东湖, Baishiyang 白石洋, Jingputou 井埔头 and Wangfang 汪方. All six settlements have merged together over time, creating one continuous natural village. The entire village currently has more than 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The Yu 余 make up 50%, while the Huang 黄 make up approximately 15% of the entire village population. Other surnames include the Guo 郭, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Ou 欧, Xu 许, Li 李, and the Cheng 程. The Yu are divided into the east Yu and the west Yu. The east Yu emigrated from Duwei 度尾 of Xianyou 仙游, and are now divided into two branches. They have a Yu ancestral hall 余氏祠堂, where they worship their ancestors. Opera is performed for two days. The west Yu came from Chengkou 程口 of Beigao 北高, and are divided into three branches. They have a Qianxianci 佥宪祠 and a Shiqing jiamiao 世卿家庙. They also worship their ancestors in their ancestral hall during Yuanxiao. Opera is performed for two days. Their ancestral tombs are currently in Chengkou 呈口. Each year, each branch sends representatives to Chengkou to worship their ancestors. The Huang have approximately 700 people. They emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞, and are mainly distributed in Zhongjing 中境. The Huang are divided into five branches. The Yudeci Huang lineage ancestal hall 黄氏裕德祠, which was originally built in Qing Jiaqing 4 (1799), is still used for ancestal worship. The lineage genealogy is kept in Huangxia. 3. Village temples 1) Huajiangjing Xigui zushê 华江境袭桂祖社 was originally the ancestral shê (zushe) 祖社 of Haibin 海滨, Zhelang 遮浪, Dongjia 东甲 and Sanhua 三华. Now it is co-owned by the east Yu 东余, west Yu 西余, the Wu 吴, Guo 郭, Ou 欧 and the Wang 王 of the village. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beima shenghou 白马圣侯. Right altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Guangfu furen 广福夫人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 is the main temple for the three village alliance of Donghua 东华. The temple was rebuilt in 1988. Middle: Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Left: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dongfu xiansheng 东阜 先生. Right: Wanggong daren 王公大人. Front left: Dong bajiang 东八将, Daye 大爷. Front right: Xi bajiang 西八将, Daye 大爷. Left side lower hall: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Qingyundong 清云洞: Middle altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Liu daye 柳大爷, Zhong junfu 中军府, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuotong 风火童. 4) Tianhougong 天后宫 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳. 5) Sanshengci 三圣祠: Built in Ming Tianqi 2 (1458), this temple belongs to the Huang 黄, the Zheng 郑, and the Lin 林. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Hui lieshenghou 惠烈 圣侯, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huang sheren 黄舍人, Bai sheren 白舍人, Lufu youer 鲁府幼儿. 6) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Xinanshê 新安社: This temple was originally built during the late Ming Dynasty, and was rebuilt both in 1947 and in 2001. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Right altar: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Front altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, Zhengyi tianshi 正一天师, Sanwei zhenren 三位真人, Sanwei xingjun 三位星君, Sanwei jiangjun 三位将军, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎 将军. 7) Dazuntang 达尊堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Canxingting 参性亭 was rebuilt in 1989. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Secondary gods: (left) Xietian dadi 协天大帝. (right ) Jialan pusa 伽蓝 菩萨. 9) Dongshengci 东升祠 was built in 1989. Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. Secondary gods: Left altar: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Right altar: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. Right hall dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 10) Minglintang 明林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Guo 郭 take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. On 1/9, the west Yu 余 take Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/10, the Ou and the Xu take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. On 1/11, the Cheng take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/12, the Huang take Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯 and Shuntian shengmu to go on procession within the territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/14, the east Yu 东余 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 and the Lin 林 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, as well as the Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 of the Chongshengci 崇圣祠 temple of Huazhong 华中 are taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days by the three village alliance of Donghua. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for almost a month, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shuangshengci 双圣祠. Opera is performed for two days. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Wanggong daren 王公大人. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by one to three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师. Marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
