V146 Houzhu 后洙 1. Village settlement Originally written Houzhu 后珠 or 后洙. Houzhu is part of Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. Houzhu currently has 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑, Lin 林 and Huang 黄. According to the survey data from 1993, the village has seventy-seven Zheng households, sixty-five Lin households, thirty-five Huang households, seven Chen 陈 households, three Liao 廖 households, seven Wu 吴 households, and one Wang 王 household. The Zheng 郑 came from Longboshê 龙波社 of Dongmen 东门 of Putian city. Divided into four branches, the Zheng have been here for seven generations. Their ancestral tombs are in Shanpai 山牌 of Laixi 濑溪. 3. Village temples 1) Houzhujing Fengshangong 后洙境凤山宫 was rebuilt in 1988. Middle: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Sima shenghou 司马 圣侯. 2) Wenfeng shushê 文峰书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Zhuangliemiao 壮烈庙 was rebuilt in 1932. Middle altar: Weigong shenghou 魏公圣侯. Left altar: Wei jiangjun 魏将军. Right altar: Provincial Governor (Dudu) Qi Jiguang 戚继光都督. Side altars: Huye 虎爷, Gouye 狗爷. 4) Gushansi 古山寺: Built during the Song Dynasty, it was a branch of the Chongxingsi 重兴寺 which (it was claimed) was under the direct administration of Beichengong 北辰宫 (note however that the Beichengong was not built until the late Ming). The temple was led by a Chan master (Chanshi) 禅师 called Seng Rusheng 僧如升. Middle altar: Shijia rulai 释迦如来. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5) Wenfutan 文福坛 is dedicated to Haigu daye 骸骨大爷, Erye二爷, Guitougong 鬼头公. 6) Fengshanting 凤山亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Fengyingtang 凤应堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, each household is visited by a procession to xingdao (practice the Dao). Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 is taken on this procession, carried by recently married young men, and is returned to the temple on the 9th. Opera is performed for one day. On 1/22, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. Lanterns and candles 喜蜡 are lit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shenghou 司马圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/2: The birthday celebration of Weigong shenghou 魏公圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 rites are carried out at the Wenfutan 文福坛. Marionette plays are performed. 9/5: 
