V154 Xizhang 西张 1. Village settlement Xizhang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Xizhang village currently has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Zhu 朱 and the Wu 吴. Apart from this, the 400 people of Huangcuo village 黄厝村 also participate in the ritual ceremonies of Xizhang. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi xishê 义齐西社, Weilinggong 威灵宫 is coowned with Xiangkou 巷口, Xiaxincuo 下新厝 and Gouding 沟顶. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 2) Lingxiaodian 凌宵殿: Main god: Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. Secondary gods: Shugong 叔公, Huye 虎爷. 3) Xilaiting 西来亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, the gods of Yiqi xishê 义齐 西社 and Ganglinggong 威灵宫 are carried in a procession around the entire village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/20: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 of Dingzhuang 定庄 is invited to watch opera. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/11–14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Gouding 沟顶 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Zhucuo 朱厝 1. Village settlement Zhucuo is part of Tianma Administrative Village 天 马行政村. Zhucuo village currently has 834 people. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Houguomiao 沙堤境后果庙 (Taiyue xinggong 台岳行宫) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Bajiang 八将. 2) Qilongtan 起龙潭 was originally built during the Southern Song Qiandao period (1165–1173). The temple was rebuilt in 2002. Main gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods: Wangmu daxian 王母大仙, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. There is a board of directors for the temple committee of Shadipu 沙堤铺. 3) Houguo chansi 后果禅寺 was built in 1944. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦 牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Buyun shuyuan 步云书院 was built in the 1929. Main god: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐 东社 are carried on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xunan wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar month, a procession of the god is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia 塘下. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every twelve years a procession of these gods is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia. 11/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
