V169 Dounan 斗南 1. Village settlement Dounan is also called Doumentou 斗门头. Dounan is located on the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. Dounan was originally part of the Yantou Dounanpu 岩头斗 南铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. The village first took shape during the Qing. The current population is more than 2000 people. Donan is both an Administrative Village as well as a natural village. The temple ritual system is divided primarily by surname into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Zhu 朱, Lin 林, Zheng 郑, and Yang 杨. There are also the minor surnames of Cai 蔡, Luo 罗, Zhang 张, and Zhang 章. 3. Village temples 1) Nanyanggong 南阳宫: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. 5) Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Xingtaishê 兴泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the Lin 林 invite the gods of Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Zhu 朱 invite the gods of Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/11, the Luo 罗, Zhang 张, Zhang 章 and Cai 蔡 invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry Dounan five shê alliance out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/12, the Yang 杨 invite the gods of Xingtaishê 兴泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 invite the gods of Xingxian shushê 兴贤 书社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/24, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated by the entire village. The gods of Nanyanggong 南阳宫 are invited to go on procession within the five shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
