V177 Houchengkou 后程口 1. Village settlement Houchengkou is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The village is also known as Chengkou 澄口. The population of Houchengkou is approximately 1600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Guo 郭. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Qi 祁, Lin 林, and Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Chengjiangjing Xingneng zongshê 澄江境兴能总社: The temple was built in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Chengjiangjing Xingneng zushê 澄江境兴能祖社 is within the Ruiyungong 瑞云宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lei daren 雷大人, Bai daren 白大人, Hei daren 黑大人, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Tingjiangjing Xixinggong 汀江境西兴宫: The main god is Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wuying Yuanshuai 五营元帅. 4) Chengjianggong 澄江宫 contains a Taishifu 太师府: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Heidaren 黑大人. 5) Qingfengting 清风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Xingneng zuzhe 兴能祖社 and Ruiyungong 瑞云宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession through all the villages within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance The birthday celebrations of the Gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/19: The birthday celebration of Bai daren 白大人. 11/17: The birthday celebration of Hei daren 黑大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
