V217 Daqiu 大丘 1. Village settlement Daqiu village was originally called Dagui 大龟. Daqiu is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. Currently the population is over 2600 people, living in over 480 households. The village is divided into four shê, namely the Fulin taishê 福霖泰社, the Dongshê 东社, the Shangshê 上社, and the Xinshê 新社. Each year each shê selects by rotation two Fushou 福首. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname group in the village, the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Baihugong 白湖宫 (also known as the Taishifu 太师府) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯. 2) Fulinshê 福霖社 (and the various shê altars inside the temple, namely the Fulin taishê 福霖太社, the Dongshê 东社 and the Shangshê 上社) all are dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Fulin xinshê 福霖新社 is in Houdaqiu 后大丘. The temple is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Fozu 佛祖. 4) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huang Er dajiang 黄二 大使, Heiyun daren 黑云大人, and Cai Asan 蔡阿三. 5) Wanfutan 万福坛 was originally a tomb for unknown soldiers during the Qing coastal evacuaton. Currently there is a stele commemorating the reconstruction of the temple and the tomb. The main god is Dizang renshi 地藏仁师. Secondary gods are Huanger dashen 黄二大神, Wang yushi 汪御史, Lin zhongjun 林中军, Dage 大哥, Erge 二哥, Jiu shugong 九叔公 and Qiye 七爷. 6) Hansantang 函三堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 7) Qingshuian Buddhist nunnery 清水庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:226). 8) Jushantang Buddhist hall 聚善堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:226). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Fulin taishê 福霖泰社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each member household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Fulin dongshê 福霖东社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Fulin xinshê 福霖新社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 Fulin shangshê 福霖上社 takes the incense burners of the temple to its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 a general Yuanxiao festival is held and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯 of Baihugong 白湖宫 go on a procession throughout Daqiu village and then on to Fulushan 福禄山 village. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The beginning good fortune 头福 festival. Opera is performed. 4/9: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. 8/15: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 9/12: The celebration for Huang er daren 黄二大人. Opera is performed. 10/12: The celebration for Heiyun daren 黑云大人. Opera is performed. 
