V256 Dongpuyu 东埔余 1. Village settlement The total population of the village of Dongpuyu is approximately 1000 people. The Yu 余 makes up more than 95% of the population of the village. Other surnames include the Li 李 and other miscellanous surname groups 杂姓. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are no other sidelines. 2. Surname groups (The Yu 余) The Yu of Dongpuyu and the Yu of Duwei 度尾 of Xianyou 仙游 are related. The year of their migration to Dongpuyu is unknown. The Yu have been here for more than ten generations. The Yu are divided into four branches: the Jiucuoli 旧厝里 is called the founder’s line (Kaizu 开族), while Zhongdijiao 中帝角 is the first branch, Dating 大厅 is the second branch, Weicuo 尾厝 the third branch, and Zhaili 寨里 is the fourth branch. The first two branches have more people. There is a Yu ancestral hall 余氏祠堂, called the Xiaoshutang 校书堂. In the past, there were ancestral spirit tablets 仙牌 placed in the hall, but now it has been transformed into a school. The Yu are said to have originally emigrated from Zhejiang province 浙江, and some migrated back to Zhejiang later on. In recent years, some descendants came from Zhejiang to identify their ancestors in this village. The lineage genealogy existed in the past, but it was later taken by children to fly kites with, so it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Cuifeng shushê 翠峰书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Siye 四爷. 3) Zhuyuanting 驻源亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Minxi shuyuan 闽西书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8: the incense burners of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑 are draped in red veils and carried in a procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held with opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with marionette plays. 6/15: The celebration of Xiexun shenghou 协顺圣侯 is held with opera. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held with marionette plays. 11/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
