V260 Chenshantou 陈山头 1. Village settlement Chenshantou is also called Meishan 梅山, and is divided into neighborhoods such as Macuo 马厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Qianting 前厅, Houmen 后门, Houmian 后面, Wenbing 文柄 (Mubing 墓柄). There is a total of more than 2000 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 徐 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Puyuan shushê 埔源书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Shanshen 山神, Shiwuma 十五妈. 2) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Yuanshuiting 源水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Songpoci 松坡祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 21 claims that there are 315 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10, the gods of Puyuan shushê 埔源书社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Xiazhuang 下庄 1. Village settlement Approximately 100 people live in Xiazhuang village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples Zhengxi wenshê 郑西文社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 the gods of Zhengxi wenshê 郑西文社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
