V265 Haizao 亥灶 1. Village settlement Haizao village is divided into Shanghaizao 上亥灶 and Xiahaizao 下亥灶. Approximately 700 people live in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhuang 庄 and Huang 黄. The Zhuang emigrated from Huian 惠安, and they are divided into two branches: the Shang zhuang 上庄 and the Xiazhuang 下庄 branches. There used to be a Zhuang ancestral hall 庄氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Taoshangong 陶山宫 contains the altar of the Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Dashiye 大使爷, Ershiye 二使爷, Jin shuaiye 金帅爷, and Shanshen 山神. 2) Fuxingshê 福兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Baiyundong 白云洞: The main god is Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) qingdou 请斗 from the Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on Hugong 壶公 Mountain. On 1/12 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dashiye 大使爷 are invited to go to every household to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/14 the gods of Taoshangong 陶山宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Villagers go on pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong 壶公 mountain to request incense 请香. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is also celebrated. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
