V292 Dongsong 东宋 1. Village settlement Dongsong natural village is part of Dongsong Administrative Village 东宋行政村. The population of Dongsong village is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Song 宋, Xu 许, Bao 鲍, Cai 蔡, Dong 董, and Zou 邹, of which the Song have the most people, at more than 700 people. The Xu are in second place, with approximately 500–600 people. The rest belong to miscellaneous surname groups. The Song 宋 emigrated from the Chengguan 城关 of Putian city 莆田. Currently, the Song are divided into three branches: Dingcuo 顶厝, Wuzu 五祖, and Xincuo 新厝 (Xiacuo 下厝), of which Wuzu has the most people, with approximately 300 people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it has already been taken down. The Xu 许 emigrated from the Xu of Kucuo 苦厝许 of Hushi 笏石. The Xu are divided into two branches: Toufang 头房and Weifang 尾房, of which the Weifang branch has more people, with approximately 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 (branched out from the Fushangong 福山宫 of Hushi 笏石), and was renovated in 1991. The main god: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. On 3/3, opera is performed for two days. There are usually three to five Daoist ritual masters 师公 invited to perform rites, but sometimes only one is invited. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Tiangonye 天公爷 (to whom villagers beg for rain 乞雨). 2) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 The secondary god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Xixian xinshê 西贤新社 (belongs to the Xu 许) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Shangyuan zushê 上元祖社 (belongs to the Song 宋) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元 帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (Xishê 西社), and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried in a procession around the village, and opera is performed for two days. Palm sedan chairs 摆棕轿 are used to carry the gods, and there is spirit medium writing or planchette writing (Fuji) 扶乩, but there are no spirit medium dances. As the gods pass by each household, each household asks the gods for a written character (usually, one or two characters are given to several households together). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held with two days of opera and three to five Daoist ritual masters conducting rites (although sometimes only one is invited). 9/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shangyuan zushê 上元祖社 is organized by the Song 宋. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixian xinshe 西贤新社 is organized by the Xu 许. 
