V317 Nanmen 南门 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanmen is located outside of the Nanmen (South Gate) of the city of Putian 莆田. This area was part of the Huiyipu 惠一铺, the Huiyongpu 惠永铺 (police/defense unit) and the Gouweipu 沟 尾铺 of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Ming, this area already had the settlements of Nanmen waijie 南门外街, Gouxiaxiang 沟下巷 and Houxiang 后巷. The current total population is approximately 5000 people, who are managed by the Nanmen Administrative Village 南门行政村. In the recent years, due to the expansion of the urban area, Nanmen village has been completely modified into an urban neighborhood, and its original settlement structures can no longer be recognized. However, since most of the local temples are either well preserved or have been rebuilt in different locations, local inhabitants can still participate in ritual activities according to the original lishê 里社 and temple 神庙 systems. The temple ritual system is divided into seven jing (ritual territories), including Nanmenjie 南门街, Houxiang 后巷, Goudong 沟东, Gouxia 沟下, Gouwei 沟尾, and Nawei 拿尾. The Nanguan Wudimiao 南关五帝庙 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Each Nanmen sevenfold ritual alliance year on 1/20, Wuhuang dadi is taken on a procession around the seven jing of the ritual alliance. The stele composed in Jiajing 33 (1554) by Fan Mei 范 梅 entitled 忠勇白公祠碑 (Stele on the Shrine of the Loyal and Brave Duke Bai) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:174, No. 152) commemorated another temple in this area. The stele is now preserved at the Putian Museum (on the grounds of the former Dongyuemiao). Village Temples 1) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙: Located on Nanmenjie 南门街, this is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanmen. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Jiucha shengshou 纠察圣侯. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Daxiong 大兄, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Nanguan Wudimiao 南关五帝庙, Tianxianfu 天仙府 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东, and was rebuilt in the recent years. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 3) Nanguan Jiuchamiao 南关纠察庙 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The stone inscription composed by Chen Jin 陈金 in 1642 entitled 创建南关纠察神祠记 (Record of the construction of the South Gate Inspection God Shrine) is about this temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:206, No. 180). 4) Zhenxingtang 真兴堂: The main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 5) Jiushengtang 救生堂: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 6) Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 originally belonged to Nanmenjie 南门街. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baoquan mama 保全妈妈 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 originally belonged to Houxiang 后巷. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Beijidian 北极殿 originally belonged to Houxiang 后巷. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Wanglingguan 王灵官. 9) Shouguang yishê 寿光义社 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Daye 大 爷 and Erye 二爷. 10) Fuxing lishê 福兴里社 originally belonged to Gouxia 沟下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11) Yixing lishê 宜兴里社 originally belonged to Nawei 拿尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 12) Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社 originally belonged to Gouwei 沟尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 13) Wanshouan 万寿庵. The temple preserves an inscribed Buddhist image composed in Zhizheng 6 (1356) entitled 万寿庵佛像题刻 (Inscription on a Buddhist Carving at the Endless Life Nunnery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:70, No. 63). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the return of the gods to Nanguan jiuchamiao 南关纠察庙 is celebrated with the performance of the year’s first opera Touchangxi 头场戏. On 1/15 after each shê 社 has gone on a procession on their own, each shê comes to Jiuchamiao to worship the gods. The processions carry palm sedan chairs which they twirl and spin while racing around several bonfires. This is referred to as Daozongjiao 倒棕 轿 (inverting the palm sedan chairs). These events are organized by each shê separately, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20 Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each shê participates in the procession by displaying their banners 旗牌. Funds are collected on a per capita basis within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On 2/2, a Chunshê 春社 celebration of the spring sacrifice to the gods of the soil and the harvest is organized by the Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 of Houxiang 后巷, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 organized by Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/13: 5/5: 5/13: 5/13: 5/16: 5/28: 6/6: 7/2: 7/23: 8/23: 9/9: 9/26: 10/19: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by Wudimiao of Nanguan 南关五帝庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社. Opera is performed, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanguan 南关, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by both Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街 and Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社, and funding is either raised through voluntary contributions or funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Jiucha shenghou is organized by both Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街 and Jiuchamiao of Nanguan 南关纠察庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社 is organized by the eight masters of the incense burners 炉主 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang yishê 寿光义社 is organized by one master of the incense burners 炉主 and twelve Fushou 福首 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yixing lishê 宜兴里社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxing lishê 福兴里社 is organized by six Fushou 福首 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. (Within Nanmen one could ten or fifteen years ago differentiate the settlements of Houxiang 后巷, Goudong 沟东, Gouxia 沟下, and Gouwei 沟尾: although it is difficult nowadays to find these neighborhoods amidst the new high-rises, the following information is appended in the interest of historical accuracy). 11/4: Houxiang 后巷 1. Village settlement Houxiang village had a population of 600 people. The village was divided into two neighborhoods, called Zhoushê 周社 and Chenshê 陈社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups were the Zhou 周 and the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Yu 余 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village Temples 1) Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真 人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 belongs to the Zhou 周. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zongbentang 宗本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhou 周 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Chen 陈 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. This is organized by the Chen 陈. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/27: the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/4: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 7/16: the celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 10/7: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 of the Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社 is organized by the Zhou 周. Opera is performed. 10/11: the celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. Goudong 沟东 1. Village settlement The population of Goudong village was over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin lineage hall 林氏宗祠. 3. Village Temples 1) Guanan dongshê 灌安东社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Fengxiangci 凤翔祠 was built during the Yongle period (1403–1424). The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods are Huangshi shengfei 黄氏圣妃 and Maozhongjun 毛中军. 3) Donglin shuyuan 东林书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4) Huilange 回澜阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Zhijiean 志节庵 was rebuilt in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:202). 6) Jincian 净慈庵 was rebuilt after the Cultural Revolution (PTZJZCG, 1992:202). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 4/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with opera. Gouxia 沟下 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后 土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Zhonglinci 忠霖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. The village as a whole organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Gouwei 沟尾 1. Village settlement The village had a population of 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Yang 杨, and Peng 彭. The Chen have approximately 1200 people, and belong to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. The Chen have reached their 15th generation. The Chen are divided into five branches, which are the first branch, second branch, third branch, fourth branch and the fifth branch. The first branch has the most people, with more than 700 people. There is a Chen ancestral hall, which is now used as the opera house. There is a lineage genealogy (the same as the one in Kuokou 阔口). 3. Village temples 1) Jumingtang 聚明堂: Main god: Lubu xiangong 鲁部相公, Lubu furen 鲁部夫人. Secondary gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Pufa tianzun 普法天尊, Shangdiye 上帝爷, Wenye 温爷, Xuantan gong 玄 坛公, and Huangxuan yuanshuai 黄玄元帅. 2) Baofu xishê 保福西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Heyitang 合一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guandiye 关帝爷, and Xuantangong 玄坛公. 4) Juxinting 聚新亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/ 14 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Kuangwang yuanshuai 匡王元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of the Baofu xishê 保福西社 are taken on procession. The Chen 陈 organize this event: four hosts and four assistant host positions are rotated into each year according to age. Toufu 头福 rites are held on 2/ 2 and opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公 is held with marionette plays. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with marionette plays. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. The god is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to the village to watch the operas. Four or five Daoist ritual masters conduct a jiao rite 做醮; 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with two days of opera. 10/24: Lanpen 兰盆 rites are held and marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three in One Scripture masters 经师 conduct chaodu 超度 deliverance rites in groups of three. Beimo wushê (Beimo five shê ritual alliance) 北磨五社 The five shê ritual alliance of Beimo is located outside the West Gate 西门 of Putian 莆田 city, and relies on streams from Fenghuang mountain 凤凰 山 for its water supply and irrigation. This area was part of the Beimopu 北磨铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里. In the Qing, the villages of 北磨, Xiamo 下磨, Qianpu 前埔, Xidi 溪底 and Xiaxie 下斜 were already settled in this area. Currently the entire area has been transformed into streets of high-rise shops and apartment buildings, but the original temple ritual system has been remarkably well preserved. This system was originally divided up on the basis of settlements and lineages into five shê ritual associations. The Feiyungong 飞云宫 temple, located in Beimo 北磨, was the originally the main temple of the five shê alliance. It is said that formerly on irregular occasions, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of this temple would be taken on a procession to the five shê, but this collective procession has not yet been revived. 
