V323 Anfu 安福) 1. Village settlement The two shê ritual alliance of Anfu is located outside the West Gate 西门 of Putian 莆田 city, which formerly had a high city wall. The two-fold shê of Anfu is located at the Ximendou 西门兜. This area was part of the Wushipu 乌石铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiangli subcanton 东厢里. In the Qing this area already was settled and had streets and a market. The population of Anfu is approximately 900 people, and they are managed by the Anren Residential Committee 安福居委会. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of original settlement into two shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wen 温, Yang 杨, and Ou 欧, Other surnames include the Yu 俞, Wu 吴, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Yaomingmiao 耀明庙 was built during the Southern Song. The temple was renovated both during the early Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The temple was within the Xilaifeng menzhen 西来凤门镇 of Putian city 莆田城. The main gods are Wuhuang dadi 五皇 大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Jiang daren 江大人, and Song daren 宋大人. This temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 33 (1907) entitled 耀明庙建奉香灯斋粮碑记 序引 (Preface and stone inscription on the establishment of a fund (in grain) to pay for incense and lamps used in Fasts (rituals) at the Temple of Shining Radiance) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:358, No. 322). 2) Xingjishê 兴济社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include 关圣帝君. 3) Wufushê 五福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Nanchengong 南宸宫: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Daye 大爷. 5) Baoshuan 宝树庵 was originally built in the Ming Chongzhen period (1611–1644) by Lin Mingji 林铭几. In the Qing dynasty, Peng Peng 彭鹏 studied here, his son Peng Shengtan 彭圣坛 rebuilt this temple in the Kangxi period. In 1915, the temple was rebuilt again, and this was recorded by Jiang Chunlin 江春霖. (PTZJZCG, 1992:200). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xingjishê 兴济社 and Wufushê 五福社 are taken on a procession around the village, practice the Dao to every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Anfu two shê ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/1: The birthday celebration of Jiang daren 江大人. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/21: The birthday celebration of Song daren 宋大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
