V335 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement Shanglin village is a part of Changlin Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The population is approximately 1800 people, within which there are more than 200 Christians. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Yu 余. 3. Village temples 1) Wanrong zushê 万榕祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Ciyunmiao 慈云庙: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ziyun zumiao 紫云祖庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4) Yufengting 御风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Zongshengci 宗圣祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 22 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Wanrong zushê 万榕祖社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/12 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by Ciyunmiao 慈云庙 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Ciyun miao 慈云庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
