V393 Jiaoxia 郊下 1. Village settlement Jiaoxiao is also called Haopu 濠浦, Chenjiakou 陈家口, Dengkekou 登科口, and Goubei 沟北. The village is divided into two neighborhoods: the Dongjing (east ritual alliance) 东境 and the Xijing (west ritual alliance) 西境. The total village population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yao 姚. 3. Village temples 1) Dengkegong 登科宫 was built in the late Ming. The temple was later moved and rebuilt in Qianlong 1 (1736), and was renovated in 1927. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太使, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣 妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lisan furen 李三夫人, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Haopugong 濠浦宫: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xianmu yuanjun 仙母元君, Xiannü niangniang 仙女娘娘, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yuanshi tianzun 元始 天尊, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Xijing 西境 invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/13 Dongjing 东境 invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/14–15 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Dengkegong 登科宫 are invited to go on a procession throughout the village. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/22: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Xijing 西境 ( the western ritual territory) 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Dongjing 东境 (the eastern ritual territory). On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by the neighborhoods of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
