V399 Jiaoxiali 郊下里 1. Village settlement Jiaoxiali was originally called Jiaobeili 郊北里. Jiaoxiali village is a part of Haopu Administrative Village 濠浦行政村. Jiaoxiaoli is made up of two two neighborhoods: Jiaoxiali 郊下里 and Yangzhongyang 洋中央. The total population is 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. They have a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wen daren 温大人, Jin daren 金大人, Pangu dijun 盘古帝君, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Qinglian xinggong 青莲行宫: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教 主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元 君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qinming daren 钦命大人 and Daxiong 大兄 (Jishen 乩神) . 3) Wenfengshê 文峰社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lisan furen 李三夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Panguan jishi 判官吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession around the village. Anrenshê 安仁社 and Wenfengshê 文峰社 separately organize the event. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by the village. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by the village. 7/16: The celebration of the apotheosis of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 8/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Anrenshê 安仁社 is organized by the Anrenshê. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wenfengshê 文峰社 is organized by the Wenfengshê. On these occasions, opera is performed and either Three in One scripture masters or Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. The events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê temples and their communities, and funds are raised on a per capita basis and/or by voluntary contributions. 
