V436 Baidu 白杜 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing 杜塘境 Beijidian 北极殿, Xiaoyoushê 孝友社. It is said that this temple was called the Xiangying temple 祥应庙 in the Song dynasty. A stele from the Ming is preserved in the temple 明方 良永谕祭碑. The main gods are: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. A stele composed in Shaoxing 8 (1138) by Fang Lue 方略 entitled 有宋兴化军祥应庙记 (Record of the Temple of Auspicious Response of the Xinghua Commandery in the Song dynasty) describes a large temple in this village about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:11, No. 14). This stele is preserved at the Putian History Museum on the grounds of the former Dongyueguan. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and the Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuntian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes this event as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capital basis. 10/25: The village celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
