V446 Donghu 洞湖 1. Village settlement Donghu was originally called Dantou 淡头. Donghu is a part of Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The total population of Donghu is approximately 3600 people. Their main source of income is agriculture. People also work in shoe manufacturing factories. Some even have their own factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Donghu village are the Li 李, Chen 陈, Lin 林 and the Fang 方. The Li have the most people and make up 40% of the entire population. The Fang and the Chen each make up 15%. There are a number of Christian households in the village. 3. Village Temples 1) Donghu Yongningshê 洞湖境永宁社 branched off from Lukougong 路口宫 in Houzhuo 后卓. Built in the Song, this temple was rebuilt in Wanli 21 (1593), renovated in Qianlong 12 (1747), Jiaqing 21 (1816), and again in 1988. Main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and 鲁府大妈. 2) Shuifengdong 水丰洞: It is claimed that this temple was originally built in the Tang dynasty. The temple was rebuilt in the 6th lunar month of 1992. Main god: Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. There is a Ming stele about irrigation rights preserved in the temple. 3) Xianyingmiao 显应庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhencisi Buddhist temple 真慈寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/13, the Li 李 carry the incense burners of the shê-altar 社炉 to each household to practice the Dao 道. On 1/14, the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 do the same. On 1/11 and on 1/15, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 and Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Qiuliu dashi 邱刘大使, and Chenzheng jiangjun 陈郑将军 are invited to go on procession within Houzhuo 后卓, Xitianwei 西天尾 and Xian 溪安. The incense burners are invited from the main temple. Opera is performed, One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. The Li lineage and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch with one another the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/ 25 and on 1/28, there is a procession of inspection around the village including decorated horses (zouma 走马), sedan chairs of the gods, the Toufu 头福 community leaders, and various performing arts troupes. The Li and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 are held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 5/15: The birthday celebration of Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯 is held. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/13: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian.五谷神仙 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for one or two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis at a rate of 0.5 RMB/ person. The village also has some Christian families. 
