V449 Houpu 后埔 1. Village settlement The current population is 1500 people. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Fruit trees provide a significant proportion of the economic income. The main types of fruit trees are dragon eyes, bananas, and loquats. The entire village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qiangan 前干, Dinggan 顶干, and Hougan 后干. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱, the Lin 林 and the You 游 are the main surname groups. The Xu 许 and the Chen 陈 each have more than ten households. The Weng 翁 have only one household. The Li 李 have three households and the Liu 刘 have five households. It is said that the Lin are from Shandong province 山东. They maintain the Tangmei (Lin) ancestral hall 唐美祠堂. The Zhu came from Jingpu 井埔 of Huangshi 黄石. The You claim to have originated from Pingguangjun 广平郡 of Henan province 河南. They are divided into six branches and have been in the village for more than ten generations. 3. Village temples 1) Houpujing Longxing yishê 后埔境隆兴义社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Guiputan 圭埔坛 (Guipu shuyuan 圭埔书院): Main gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Qingliandong 青廉洞: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Taishipingsi Buddhist temple 太史坪寺 was rebuilt in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14 Qiangan 前干, Hougan 后干, and Dinggan 顶干 take turns to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Li daren 李大人, and Wei daren 魏大人 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/22–23, the Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rite is celebrated. Lanterns go on procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
