V461 Shuiliuli 水流利 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Han 韩, Zhu 朱, Xie 谢, and Chen 陈. The Zhu has the most people with approximately 300 members. The Zhu emigrated from Dongzhu 东洙 of Huangshi 黄石 a few hundred years ago. In the village, the Yao are divided into two branches: Yi 义 and Kun 坤. Later on, Yi and Kun each developed into two sub-branches, and each sub-branch has approximately the same number of people. The Xie has more than sixty people, and they emigrated from Daitou 埭头. The Xie are divided into five branches, of which the second branch has the most people. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off (divided incense) from Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Wubentang 务本堂 (the Zhu 朱): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records ninety initiates. 3) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 (the Xie 谢): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 are invited to go on processions within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by two village elders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. At the end of the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by the Wubentang 务本堂 and the Zongkongtang 宗孔堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
