V468 Wushi 乌石 1. Village settlement The entire village of Wushi has only 160 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Wushi zushê 乌石祖社 (Yihushê 壹壶社): Main god: imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yushu tianzun 玉枢天尊, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Liujiangjun 柳将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Lü Dongbing 吕洞宾, Li Tieguai 李铁拐, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙 山宫. Opera is performed, and a Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Beishan 北山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. The are also ten households of the Chen 陈 surname group. 3. Village temples Xingfu xinshê 兴福新社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang yuanshuai 吉祥元帅, Dutian dasheng 都天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
