V478 Shanghuang 上黄 1. Village settlement Shanghuang is part of the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The entire village has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group, the Lin 林, makes up more than 90% of the total population. Other surnames include the Huang 黄. The Lin emigrated from Shuangfu 双福 (Duxia 渡下) of Hanjiang 涵江. The Lin of the village are now divided into three branches: the sixth branch, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Citangbian 祠堂边. The latter makes up 40% of the total population. 3. Village temples 1) Chongdeshê 崇德社: This temple was originally owned by the Huang 黄, but since the shê of the Lin 林 had collapsed, the Lin combined their shê with that of the Huang. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (two statues), Zhang gong 张公 (two statues), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (two statues). 2) Shuanghuangjing chongdeshê 上黄境崇德社 belongs to the Lin 林. This temple was rebult in 1996. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dugong yuanshuai 杜公元帅. 3) Kaizhengmiao 开正庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen姨妈夫人, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Xiefu dashen 谢府大神 and Huye 虎爷. 4) Taizimiao 太子庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Lin 林 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Lin portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Lin surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 the Huang 黄 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Huang portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/1: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Ritual managers rotate into responsibility for management of annual celebrations according to age. 4/24: 
