V500 Guozhuang 郭庄 1. Village settlement Guozhuang village was originally called Guocang 郭仓. The village has a population of approximately 800 people living in 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, but many men work in construction and many young women work in shoe factories. The level of education is high in this village, which has a number of foreign Ph.D.s to its credit. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Guo 郭. It is said that the Guo of the village came to Fujian from Gushi district in Henan province 河南固始. First they moved to Xianyou 仙游, and later moved to Xianying 显应. The founding ancestor in the village was Guo Yizhong 郭义重. Subsequently, the lineage divided into six branches, with Guozhang 郭庄 as the direct line of the eldest son 长房. The other branches are in Xiayu 下宇, Ketang 柯塘, Jiangdong 江东, Huazhong 华中, Qinyuan Houlin 沁园后林, and Qibu Zhuxiang 七步朱巷. Formerly there was an ancestral hall in Guozhuang but it no longer exists. The lineage is in the twelfth generation since their ancestor, the Qing dynasty figure, Guo Dianqing 郭殿卿, attained his Jinshi degree (Metropolitan Graduate). Local legend claims that Guzhuang 郭庄 is the home of the parents of Guo Yizhong 郭义重, a Song paragon of virtue who received a sign from Heaven confirming his filial piety, and for whom the court had a shrine built. In recent years, various branches of the Guo lineage from Hui’an 惠安 to Henan 河南 have visited Guozhuang to confirm its importance to the history of the lineage within Fujian. These efforts received government approval in 1985. Other legends link Guzhuang village with the landholdings of the Guo lineage, and suggest that the parents of GuoYizhong had hidden there to avoid implication in the crimes of another lineage member. 3. Village temples 1) Baoxingmiao 宝兴庙 is divided into the main hall and a side hall. The main hall is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Jingong daren 金公大人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The side hall is a Lufu 鲁府, and is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 villagers go to the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On 1/14–15 after completing a tour of inspection procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, the gods are escorted back to Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/26–27, there is a procession of gods in the village, performances of opera, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: A celebration for all the gods 文武诸神 is held. 8/10: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
