V514 Tiancen 田岑 1. Village settlement The village of Tiancen has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The only surname in the village is the Chen 陈. They are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 who came from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口. The village has a Chen ancestral hall and it is there that each year three Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to look after the rituals of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Dengyingjing Anren zhongshê 登瀛境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Qingyigong 清溢宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. To left and right are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and on the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. On the right and left are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 6) Zhibentang 致本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house. Daoists are invited to perform rites. On 1/13 the gods are escorted back to the temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns for their homes 乞火. On 1/26 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Fushou 福首主持, Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Three in One temple in the village 三一教祠. 
