V521 Jiangbian 江边 1. Village settlement Jiangbian is also known as Gangbian 港边. The village of Jiangbian has a population of over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by laboring in construction. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. They moved to Jiangbian from Mendou 门兜 in Putian 莆田 city. They have divided into three lineage branches. They once had an ancestral hall but it has been converted into a school. 3. Village temples 1) Taojiangjing Changfu zhongshê 陶江境长福中社 was rebuilt in 1991. The main altar is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the left altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. On the right altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. In the left hall, the Xiashuitang 夏水堂, are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Daye 大爷. In the right hand hall, the Wanxingdian 万兴殿 are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Guangxiatang 光夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the general Yuanxiao festival is held and two spirit medium 神童 are possessed by the gods, and issue a proclamation from the gods 出榜. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. On some occasions up to five Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 take turns organizing the rituals. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a day in the 11th lunar month determined by divination by the Three in One initiates of the village who conduct the Lanpen 兰盆 rites. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Guangxiatang 光夏堂 and is also known as the Yuying shuyuan 毓英书院 was built in Qianlong 3.(1738) and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left and right are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
