V547 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanshê 龙山社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingshansi 青山寺: Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Qinglonggong 青龙宫 is dedicated to Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Qingfudian 清福殿: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Baidaren 白大人 and Xietian dadi协天上帝. 5) Jinshangfu 金沙府 is dedicated to Wangdaren 王大人. 6) Qinglinggong 青灵宫: Main god: Lubu dashen. Secondary gods are Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Dao- ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with opera. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held with opera. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with opera for four days. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held with opera for four days. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. On a day determined by divination in the lunar 11th month, the birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held. On all these occasions, Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. Some of these rituals are organized by the village as a whole, while others are orangized by the entire four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
