V551 Linwai 林外 1. Village settlement Linwai was originally called Linwaishê 林外社. Linwai village is a part of the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. The three jiao (corners, i.e., neighborhoods) of Linwai 林外三角 are Pengcuo 彭厝, Laicuo 赖厝, and Xiacuohuang 下厝黄. There are close to 1700 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Su and the Chen. The Su 苏 came from Wugong 武功 and the Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. Other surnames are the Tu 涂, Zhou 周, Li 李, and the Zhang 张 from Guitang 桂塘. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. Tombs are swept on Qingming 清明 festival, but there is no common worshipping. In Pengcuo 彭厝, the main surname groups are the Yao 姚, Zheng 郑, and the Peng 彭. In Laicuo 赖厝, the main surname group is the Lai 赖. In Xiacuohuang 下厝黄, the main surname group is the Huang 黄, which has two branches: one came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and one from the mountains, the Huang of Shanli 山里黄. 3. Village temples 1) Linwaijing Xianglong fushê 林外境香龙福社: Originally built on Mount Gui 龟山 in 1503, it was relocated here in 1580. An stele from Qing Daoguang 15 (1835) has been preserved. The main gods worshipped are Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. 2) Fuchenggong 福成宫 is also known as Xiacuo Wuwanggong 下厝五 王宫. The main gods worshipped are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Other gods include Langong dashen 兰公大神, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Xie daren 谢大人, Huang daren 黄大人 and Li daren 李大人. 3) Chongbentang 重本堂 in Laicuo 赖厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 325 initiates. 4) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 in Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Pengcuo 彭厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/12 Laicuo 赖厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/13 Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/17 A common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is offered three days of opera. 2/25: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is offered two days of opera 4/13: Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 are offered three days of opera 7/6: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 are offered two days of opera. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. Contributions for the opera and Daoist rituals for these occasions are collected from each dui 队 (production brigade) on a per capita basis. 
