V556 Dongpai 东牌 1. Village settlement Dongpai village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village东福行政村. There are approximately 2000 people living in Dongpai village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers working in the shoe manufacturing industry and other manufacturing industries. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up 50%, and the Lin 林 (40%) of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. The Wu came from Shuinan 水南 of Huangshi 黄石. The Lin came from Wushi 乌石 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Aotangjing Xingxiaoli Zhongwu Wanshoushê 鳌塘 境兴孝里忠吴万寿社. This temple was renovated in Guangxu 19 (1893) and again in 1986. The temple is divided into the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 which belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Wanshoushê 万寿社 which belongs to the Lin 林. They worship separate sets of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped in the Zhongwushê include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Other gods in the Wanshoushê include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gongfu daren 龚府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 19 (1893) entitled 重修忠吴万寿祖社序 (Preface to the restoration of the Zhongwu Wanshou founding shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:348, No. 312). 2) Dongqinggong 东青宫, Zhuyundian 竹云殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母and to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Qiaotou Donglaidian 桥头东来殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and to Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Puyintang 普音堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Wu 吴 invite many of the gods of the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 to go on a procession: The following gods are placed in six palm sedan chairs 棕轿: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The Lin invite four gods from the Wanshoushê 万寿社 to ride in large wooden sedan chairs in a procession. These are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Gongfu daren 龚府大人. Six gods are placed in smaller palm sedan chairs. They are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gong daren 龚大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On 1/14, the Lin 林 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/15, the Wu 吴 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanshoushê 万寿社 are celebrated by the Lin 林. 5/13: The birthday of Sima shengwan 司马圣王 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 5/27: The birthday of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Zhongwushê 万寿社 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 8/13: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai’s 田公元帅 is celebrated by the Lin 林. Due to the restrictions on the location of the opera performance, opera performances usually take place during the sixth lunar month, using the playground in the local elementary school. Opera is performed for five to six days. The expenses are collected on a per capita basis, from within the relevant lineage. 
