V577 Xiujiao 秀郊 1. Village settlement Xiujiao was originally known as Shudou 树兜 and belonged to the Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The entire village has a total of 120 households and more than 700 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, with some handicrafts as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in the village is the Wu 吴, with approximately 110 households. Other surnames include the Jiang 江, with seven households, and the Tang 唐, with three households. The Wu moved to the village from Xizhu 西洙 village near Putian 莆田, and have lived in the village for eleven generations. There used to be a Wu ancestral hall 吴氏祠堂, but it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Xiujiaojing Lipushê 秀郊境励浦社 contains the Fuxingtan 福兴坛. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810) and was repaired in 1981. A stele is preserved in the temple entitled Chongjian Fuxingtan beiji 重建福 兴坛碑记 (Stele record of the reconstruction of the Fuxingtan), dated Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810). The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On the left are Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and on the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝 is in a miniature Beijidian 北极殿 temple in a niche above the altar. On the left is a mural of the Lipushê 励浦社 featuring Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Zhangong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to take charge of the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The celebration of Yuhuang shangdi 玉皇上帝. Representatives are sent to the Lingyundian on Hugong mountain 壶山凌云殿 to ask for the incense of Yuhuang shangdi. Opera is performed for two days. 1/16: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Marionette plays are performed. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 11/15: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed 下元 普度 and marionette plays are sponsored. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village originally had spirit mediums who were possessed by Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Currently, Fuxingtang has two older and several younger mediums, a number of whom are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 each Yuanxiao festival to perform exorcistic dances 行傩. There is also a Three in One temple called the Yangbentang 养本堂. The SJCDCB, 1992 records forty-two initiates. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Xiangmingan 香明庵 in the village. 4/13: 
