V616 Sangu 三股 1. Village settlement Sangu village has a population of approximately 2000 people, and is divided in three neighborhoods, the Shang, Zhong, and Xiashê 上, 中下社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑 with 800 people, the 陈 with 700 people, and the Feng 冯 with 300人 people. The Zheng moved to Sangu in the Song dynasty from Baisha 白沙 in Putian 莆田. The Chen moved to Sangu in the Ming from Yongchun 胡洋 Huyang 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshangshê, zhongshê, and xiashê 湖东境福兴上社, 中社, 下社, are all within the Xingyundian 兴云殿. The temple was rebuilt in 1984. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Zhongjun 中军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Xingtinggong 兴亭宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 3) Miaodayun 妙大云 belongs to the seven-shê alliance of Tangtou, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhongben shuyuan 中本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Sangu villagers go to the Fuxinggong in 福兴宫 Tangwei to invite Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Zhongjun 中军 to go on a procession through their village territory. Opera is performed for two to three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Sangu participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed. 6/10: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/21: The celebration of Zongjun 中军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/25: The celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 9/20: The celebration of Dage 大哥 and Erge 二哥 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Sangu participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three shê of Sangu select Fushou 福首 to rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
