V617 Xinpo 新坡 1. Village settlement Xinpo was originally called Shenpu 沈埔. Xinpo village has a population of over 3000 people. The main livelihood is tile making and labor in the kilns. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. The are also the Zhang 张 and the Yi 蚁 minor surname groups. The Zheng moved to Xinpo from Qiandai in Putian city 前埭, and have divided into five lineage branches. There is a Zheng lineage ancestral house 郑氏祖厝 in Xinpo. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing nanshê 湖东境福兴南社 is inside the Xinpotang (also called the Ruiyundian) 新坡堂(瑞云殿) the main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Lushi furen 卢氏夫人. 2) Xunzhong shuyuan 顺中书院 was rebuilt in 2006 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, and Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 95 initiates. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Xinpo goes to the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invited Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 back to the village to go on a procession, while opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xinpo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/22: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Lushi furen 卢氏夫人 is held. 6/16: The celebration of Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xinpo has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual specialists of whom four are Daoist masters. Xinpo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year each lineage branch selects the Fushou 福首 who will rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
