V641 Qitou 歧头 1. Village settlement Qitou was originally called Yanzhen 雁阵. The village population is over 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Gong 龚, the Huang 黄, and the Liu 刘. The Gong have the most people. The Huang moved from Haungxiang 黄巷 and claim to be the descendants of Huang Gongdu 黄公度. 3. Village temples 1) Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 belongs to the Gong 龚. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 belongs to the Liu 刘, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 belongs to the Huang 黄 and is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 5) Beiyuandian 北元殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Nandou xingjun 南斗 星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, and Dujian dadi 都监大帝. 6) Qingandong 清安洞 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公星君. 7) Yuanhuatang 源华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 8) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9) Wanglinggong 万灵宫 is dedicated to Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 10) Sanhuitang 三会堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 1580 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, each shê community takes the incense burners of its shê altar to each household in its own territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, and two days of opera are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 is organized by the Huang 黄. 9/4: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 is organized by the Gong 龚. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 is organized by the Liu 刘. 5. Ritual Groups Qitou village has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. Unusually, on 6/13 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. In most of the Putian area, these rites take place around the Xiayua (lower prime 10/15) rather than around Zhongyuan (7/15) which is more common in Minnan areas and elsewhere in China. 
