V643 Shishan 石山 1. Village settlement Shishan is also known as Xiaoshan 小山. Shishan village belongs to the Jingshan Village Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The current population is approximately 3300 people living in around 600 households. The main livelihood is aquaculture, raising seafood and fishing. According to people in Dongcheng village 东埕 the shore of Shishan and its dams originally belonged to Dongcheng, and only later were seized by the villagers of Shishan. At the moment this is under litigation. There have been many conflicts over these issues in the past as well. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Chen are more numerous and live mostly in Qianzhi 前至 neigbourhood. The Chen moved to Shishan from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 live in Houzhi 后至 neighborhood, and came from Huangxiang 黄巷. 3. Village temples 1) Jingshanjing Ganyinmiao (also called the Hunyuandian) 鲸山境感应庙(混元殿) which contains the Xingxian shexue 兴贤社学. This temple has as its subsidiaries the Dongshê (eastern) 东社, Xishê (western) 西社, and the Nanshê (southern) 南社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, as well as Taishang laojun 太上老君. Secondary gods include Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Shuiguan dadi 水官大人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王 (Shitai zhenren 石胎真人), Fude zhengshen 福 德正神, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 11 (1861) entitled 重修混元殿碑记 (Stele on the restoration of the Temple of Chaotic Origin) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 286). 2) Jingshanjing wudanggong 鲸山境武当官 is also known as the Huting (Tiger pavilion) 虎亭. It is said that the Tiger taming Monk Hufu zushi Huang Miaoying 伏虎祖师黄妙应 once traveled here and carved a stone tiger and a stele as a mark of his progress. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Tiangang 天罡, Dikui 地魁, Shi zuoye 史佐爷, Zheng zuoye 张佐爷, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Wubentang 悟本堂 (Wuben shuyuan 悟本书院) was founded by Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the late Qing, and is the main temple of the Wuben branch of the Three in One religious movement 悟本派总堂, and so is independent of the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 in Putian. This claims to be the first temple in the Three in One movement to hold the Lanpen 兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Puyao Liang xiansheng 普辉梁先生, Zhida Chen xiansheng 智达 陈先生, Zhihui Liu xiansheng 智瑞刘先生, Weituo 韦驮, Shijia 释迦, and Jialan 迦兰. The SJCDCB, 1992: 8 lists 340 initiates. 5) Wuxintang 悟心堂 in Qiancuo 前厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. 6) Jingyuean 净月庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/15, the Huang 黄 of Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian xishê 兴贤西社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 8/1: The celebration of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 10/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 12/26: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village but they have no guanjie 关戒 training. Formerly they set up an altar 设坛 for their activities. Shishan has over 400 initiates in its Three in One temple. The temple standing committee 常务理事 has over a dozen members. On 7/29 the Wubentang 悟本堂 performs the Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance and marionette plays are performed. 
