V667 Xinjing 新井 1. Village settlement Xingjing belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Xinjing is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. There are currently approximately 300 people, and the village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何. Other surname groups include the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林 and the Li 李. It is said that the He 何 of Xinjing 新井 are the earliest residents of Jiangkou 江口. Their descendents are dispersed in several villages throughout the Jiangkou 江口 region. There is a Lin 林 ancestral hall that has been recently rebuilt. 3. Village temples 1) Fengchigong 凤池宫 is located within Jinjiang fengchifang 锦江凤池坊 and contains the Longjin beishê 龙津北社. This temple branched out from the Lutaigong 炉台宫. Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt during Qing Qianlong period (1736– 1795), and was renovated in 1927 and in 1982. The main gods worshipped are Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 and Yishan dadi 意山大帝. Secondary gods worshipped are Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王, Zhonggong dutong 郑公都统, Wugong dutong 吴公都 统, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Hugong jiangjun 虎公将军, Dongxi shizhe 东西使者, Panguan jijiang 判官吉将, Zunzhu mingwang 尊 主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Wenwu zhujiang 文武诸将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions There are no processions. Decorated towers 彩楼 are constructed to welcome the arrival of the gods from each temple. On 1/15, a feast is organized to worship the gods. Funds are collected on a per household basis, and it is organized all together. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is held. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 is held. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Yishan dadi 意山大帝 is held. A feast is set up to worship the gods. Opera is performed for two to three days each time. Funds are collected on a per household basis. There are also personal donations. 
