V707 Xiabangwei 下邦尾 1. Village settlement Xiabangwei is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境. Xiabangwei belongs to the Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行政村. There are currently more than 2100 people living in the village. The village is divided by surname into three jia 甲neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方, the Xu 许, and the Li 李. The Xu is the largest surname group, and has divided into four lineage branches. The Fang and the Li emigrated into the village from elsewhere. Their origins are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Jinlundian 金轮殿 is in Fengmeijing 丰美境 and contains the Lixing qianshê 礼兴前社, which was renovated in Qing Guangxu 31 (1905). The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元 帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Ling jiangjun 灵将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Sanyan wuyan 三眼五 眼, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Qinglou diqi 青娄地祗, and Wencao wujiang 文曹武将. 2) Zhenben shuyuan 真本书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–1/14, the gods are invited to each home to xingdao 行道. On 1/17 there is a procession of the gods around the village borders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Fang 方. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Lingguan dadi 灵官大 帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is organized by the entire village all together. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the Xu 许. 5/5: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣 is are organized by the Xu 许. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Xu 许. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Fang 方. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Li 李. 5. Ritual Groups There are more than fifty-six members of the Tanban 坛 班 altar association. There is still one generation of old spirit mediums, and two generations of new mediums. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place five times since 1983. Members of the temple management committee are selected by lineage and by lineage branch. There are 103 members of the board. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected; the Xu 许 pick four, and the Fang 方 and the Li 李 each select one. 
