V708 Dingbangwei 顶邦尾 1. Village settlement Dingbangwei is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境 and also belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行政村. There are currently more than 1100 people living in the vil- lage, which is divided into four neighborhoods by surname group. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The next largest surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Yu 俞, Liu 刘, and Cai 蔡. The Chen is divided into three branches, living in three jia 甲. Others like the Zheng and the Liu live in one jia 甲. 3. Village temples 1) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 is in Fengmeijing 丰美境 and contains the Lixing shangshê 礼兴上社. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped are Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生 大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Falu dutong 法籙都统, Wuan shengjun 武按圣君, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Yuqian zhongjun 御前中 军, and Yongquan zushi 永泉祖师. 2) Zhengshantang Buddhist hall 正善堂 was built in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, gods are welcomed to each jia 甲 to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, a procession is held to return the gods to the temple, and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 goes on a circuit of the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The birthday celebration of Falu dutong 法籙都统 is organized by the Chen of the third neighborhood 陈三甲. 3/28: The celebration for Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is organized by the entire village. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Chen of the first neighborhood 陈一甲. 6/1: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is organized by the Chen of the second neighborhood 陈二甲. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 are organized by the Zheng 郑, Yu 俞, Cai 蔡, and Liu 刘 of the fourth neighborhood. 7/7: The celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is organized by the Chen of the second neighborhood 陈二甲. 8/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the entire village. 5. Ritual Groups In 1983, 1995, and 2004 three 关戒 spirit medium training sessions were held. There are still two generations of old mediums, and there are twenty new spirit mediums who have been trained. Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Falu dutong 法籙都统, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 and Qiugong shengjun 邱公圣君 all descend to possess mediums. There is a Mingxiaci 明夏祠 with around thirty Three in One members. 
