V716 Liangcuo 梁厝 1. Village settlement Liangcuo is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1300 people. The village is divided into two jia 甲 sections by surname. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of members of the Liang 梁 and Dai 戴 surname groups. The Liang are the most important lineage, and are divided into five branches. 3. Village temples 1) Changfu zushê 长福祖社 and the Beijidian 北极殿 of Liangcuo shengjing 梁厝胜境 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guishan dawang 龟山 大王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Heimian Li furen 黑面李夫人 and Disi gong niangniang 第四宫娘娘. 2) Chongxiaodian 重宵殿 was built during the Ming Chenghua period (1465–87) and in 1997 was made a county level cultural preservation site. The main god worshipped is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Qiyundian 齐云殿 is dedicated to Ducha dashen 都察大神. 4) Zhongdoudian 中兜殿 is dedicated to Haotian yuanshuai 昊天元帅. 5) Fudemiao 福德庙 was rebuilt in 1996 and is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, with Weito 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 7) Huang daxianci 黄大仙祠 was built in 1996 by Hong Kong Overseas Chinese from the village, and was consecrated in 1998. The main god worshipped in Huang Daxian 黄大仙. Secondary gods include Chifeng Zhangyu jiangjun 敕封张禹将军 and Chifeng Wangxin xianshi 敕封王幸仙师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Liang 梁 invite the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道. On the following days, 1/14–15 the Dai 戴 do the same. After the Yuanxiao festival has ended, a day is chosen by divination for the gods to go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2/2: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Haotian yuanshuai 昊天元帅. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Guishan dawang 龟山大王. For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association with six spirit mediums 神童 and over 80 futong 扶童 (assistant lads). They have already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings six times. The Mingdetang 明德堂 has a Guanyin dashi goddess association 观音大士神明会, which conducts rituals each year on 1/22. 
