V722 Xihu 西湖 1. Village settlement Xihu village was originally called Xiwu 西吴. The village population is over 1400 people. The main livelihood is brick and tile making. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 surname is the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Huiqingtang 会庆堂 contains the altar of the Jiying zhongshê 集英中社. The temple is commonly referred to as the Xihugong 西湖宫, and is the main overall temple of the Tangtou thirteen village ritual alliance 塘头十三甲总宫. The temple was first built in the Ming Chenghua period (1465–1487), and was rebuilt in 1982. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Ma zhongjun 马中军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Dong shizhe 东使者, and Xi shizhe 西使者. 2) Biyundian 碧云殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Nanchen xingjun 南辰星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Hongyundian 红云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Zheng yi Wang lingguan 正一王灵官. 4) Pingtianci 平天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 117 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, the villagers go to the Huiqingtang 会庆堂 to invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 to go on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Huiqingtang 会庆堂. Opera is performed for five days and each year with an intercalary seventh month there is a procession through the entire thirteen village alliance. 5. Ritual Groups The temple management committee of the Huiqingtang 会庆堂 is formed of representatives from each of the thirteen member villages. There are eight spirit mediums, and they have held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions twice. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
