A003 Goukou qijing (Goukou sevenfold ritual alliance) 沟口七境The sevenfold ritual alliance of Goukou is situated alongside the main channel emerging directly from the side of the Mulan Weir. This area was part ofthe Shendu Goukoupu (police/defense unit) 深凟沟口铺 and the HenggouQianhuangpu 横沟前黄铺, both of which were part of the Weixinli subcanton 维新里. The ritual alliance includes Goukou 沟口, Xiaqutou 下渠头Qiandun 前墩, Zhongdun 中墩, and Houdun 后墩. In the Ming, the villagesof Henggou 横沟 and Qianhuang 前黄 were inhabited. In the Qing, the following villages branched off from these settlements: Goukou 沟口, Gouxia沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Qiandun 前墩, Zhongdun 中墩, Houdun 后墩, Qingcha青垞 and Wangzhuang 王庄, a total of eight villages in all. Wangzhuang王庄 is now called Yunzhuang 云庄, which was part of the Wangzhuangzhenwei pu 王庄圳尾铺 of Hugongli sub-canton 胡公里, but because theearly village settlers were Wangs 王 who were related to and divided off fromthe Wangs of Qingcha village 青垞王, this village also is part of the Goukousevenfold ritual alliance 沟口七境.The Xiangshangong 香山宫 temple, located in the village lands of Qingcha青垞 village, was originally the main temple of the Goutou Thirteen Village alliance 沟头十三乡 as well as being the main temple of the Goukousevenfold ritual alliance 沟口七境. The main goddess of the temple is Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, with secondary gods Li Zhen 黎畛, Dashi 大使 andErshi 二使. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival in the firstlunar month, each of the villages in the various alliances based in the templewould go to the Xiangshangong temple to invite the god to their village, andon a day determined by divination, would take part in a collective procession around all the villages of the alliance. Currently, Qingcha 青垞, Goukou沟口, and Yunzhuang 云庄 still go to the Xiangshangong to invite the goddess, but the ritual alliances have not yet revived the general processions andcollective rituals.During the Ming and Qing, the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 lineages wereprominent lineages with successful examination candidates. In Qianhuang前黄 there was a Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduate) 进士牌坊 memorial arch,and in Henggou 横沟 there was a Zhenjie (Chaste Widow) 贞节牌坊 memorial arch.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Goukousevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance.
