A004 Zhengban sevenfold ritual alliance(police/defense unit) 郑阪铺 of the Weixinli sub-canton 维新里. In theMing this area had a village called Zhengban 郑坂. In the Qing this villagebranched off into the villages of Houmian 后面, Xiwei 西尾, Gouxia 沟下,and Cangtou 苍头. In the late Qing the villages of Dincuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝and Getou 隔头 branched off. The current population of the alliance isover 5000 people, divided into seven natural villages. The main livelihood isagriculture.The Zhengjueyuan 正觉院 temple, located in Houmian 后面 village, is themain overall temple for the sevenfold alliance 七境总宫. The main gods ofthe temple are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Secondary gods are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Jingang mingwang 金刚明王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Guanyindashi 观音大士, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Taiyixiangu 太乙仙姑, Jiushu zushi 九树祖师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君,Puan xianshi 普庵仙师, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. Each year there are several days of operaon 2/2 to celebrate Toufu 头福. On 3/3 the celebration of Xuantian shangdi玄天上帝 is held, and on 3/23 the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. On 5/5 the celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is held, andon 8/21 the celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and finally on 11/11the celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. All this ritual activity is organized by the Zhengjueyuan temple management committee andis funded by the people of the seven village alliance. Each year on 6/6, forthe celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 the villages of the Zhengbansevenfold ritual alliance all perform opera for over ten days, and sacrificeover 100 rams.The Liao 廖, Xu 许, Zeng 曾 and Lin 林 of Zhengban were local prominentlineages with many successful examination candidates. In Ming Chenghua13 (1477), a Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Metropolitan Candidatememorial archway 进士”牌坊 for Liao Dezheng 廖德征 in this area.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of theZhengban sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banneralliance.
