A011 Zhangjiang bashê (Zhangjiang eight shê ritual alliance) 章江八社The eight shê alliance of Zhangjiang is located in between the Luowai 罗外main channel and the main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate洋城斗门 of the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Zhanjiangpu 樟江铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanlili 南力里 sub-canton. In theMing, this area contained the two villages of Zhangyu tougang 章鱼头港 andHoukou 涵口. In the Qing the following villages branched off: Gangli 港利,Xicuo 西厝, Houzhou 后周, Houpeng 后彭, Beicuo 北厝, and Weicuo 尾厝. In the late Qing the following villages branched off: Qianhu 前湖, Houhu后湖 and Huibi 灰壁. This area is locally referred to as the Eighteen Moundsof Gangli 港利十八墩. Currently these villages belong to the two Administrative Villages of Gangli 港利 and Gangxi 港西二行政. The overall population of these villages is over 3400 people.The main surname groups of the ritual alliance are the Peng 彭 and theZhou 周. The Peng have approximately 2000 people. Their lineage genealogy still exists, as does their lineage ancestral hall. It is said that the Peng ofPutian 莆田 developed into other areas from Hankou 涵口 of Gangli 港利.The Peng of Tongan 同安彭, Hengtang 横塘 of Huangshi 黄石 and Nanzhi南枝 (Zhangzhen 张镇) of Chengxiang 城厢 all recognize this area as theirFujian point of origin. Their distinguished ancestor Peng Shao 彭韶, receivedhis jinshi 进士 Metropolitan graduate degree in Ming Tianshun 1 (1457),and rose to the position of Minister of Justice 刑部尚书. He was grantedthe posthumous title of Huian 惠安 and his tomb is located in Shuanghu双浒. In Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up aDasikou 大司寇牌坊 memorial archway in honor of Peng Shao and in MingHongzhi 7 (1494), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Shike 世科牌坊 (generationsof successful examination graduates) memorial archway for Peng Shao andhis son. Another renowned ancestor from the area was Peng Peng 彭鹏, aQing Shunzhi period (1644–1661) Juren 举人 Provincial Graduate who wasmade Governor of Guangdong 广东巡抚.The Zhou currently have some 500 people in this area. In the Ming, thislineage produced seven Jinshi Metropolitan Graduates. In Ming Jingtai 1(1450), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Jinshi memorial archway 进士牌坊 inZhangyutou gang 章鱼头港 in honor of Zhou Tan 周埮.The main overall temple of the Zhanjiang eight shê alliance is the Zhangjiangjing Zhaolinggong 章江境昭灵宫 temple, located in Houzhou 后周 village, which contains the altar of Zhangjiang lishê 章江里社. This temple wasbuilt in Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488). The temple is divided into eight shê altars:Qiannan Pengshê 前南彭社 (for Qianhu 前湖 and Houhu 后湖), Qiannanshushê 前南书社 (for Houzhou 后周), Qianxishê 前西社 (for Xicuo 西厝),Qianbeshê 前北社 (for Beicuo 北厝), Qiandong zushê 前东祖社 (for Huibi灰壁), Qiandongshê 前东社, Qiandong shushu 前东书社 (for Houpeng后彭) and Qianxing qingshê 前兴庆社 (for Weicuo 尾厝). The main godsworshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, andSanwei zhenjun 三位真君. Secondary gods are Wulu jiangjun 五路将军,Baima xianggong 白马相公, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. The following arethe dates at which the eight shê come to the Zhangjiang lishê 章江里社 during Yuanxiao festivities to carry the goddess Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 back totheir villages for opera and a procession:Qiandongshê 前东社, Qiandong shushê 前东书社 1/9Beicuo qianbeishê 北厝前北社 1/12,Qiandong zushê 前东祖社 1/13Houzhou qiannan shushê 后周前南书社 1/14Xicuo qianxishê 西厝前西社 1/15, 1/17Qiannan pengshê 前南彭社 1/16Weicuo 尾厝, Gangxi yanqingshê 港西延庆社 1/18In addition, in the fourth and eighth lunar months, each shê invites Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 back to their village to watchopera.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of Zhangjiangeight-shê ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance.
