A013 Cuobing four shê ritual alliance2) Longjin zushê 龙津祖社, which belongs to the Lin 林, is dedicated toZunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary godsare Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母, Xigong xima 喜公喜妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.3) Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社, which belongs to the Lin 林, is dedicated toZunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods areTianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qitian yuanshuai 齐天元帅, Dutian yuanshuai都天元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.4) Chunxing dongshê 淳兴东社(also known as Dengaoshê 登鳌社), whichbelongs to the mixed surnames 杂姓, was for a long time the location for thevillage committee of the Cuobing village 厝柄村委会. During that period,its god statues are placed in the Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社. The main godsof the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu天上圣母, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.5) Longjin xishê 龙津西社, Baoangong 保安宫, which belongs to Dai 戴has been rebuilt after being destroyed and its god statues placed in the Chunxing nanshe 淳兴南社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 andHoutu furen 后土夫人.6) Qingyundian 清云殿 is in Xicheng 西埕 and belongs to the Lin 林. Thistemple branched off from the Qingyundong of Xihuang in Lingchuan 灵川西黄清云洞 in 1939. The main god is Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods are Tianbao yuanshuai 天宝元帅, Kuide dashen 魁德大神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jiaoming xianshi 教明仙师, Lishanwang 李山王,and Huobu dashen 火部大神.7) Ciyunge 慈云阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.8) Yuyingtang 育英堂 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.9) Wanantang 万安堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen鲁府夫人 and Lufufu yima 鲁府姨妈.10) Xingxiatang 行夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB,1992:16 claims 250 initiates.11) Minyang shuyuan 闽阳书院, Zhuzici 朱子祠 was originally owned bythe thirteen village alliance, but was destroyed in 1973. An ancient stele commemorating the temple is currently preserved at the Minyang elementaryschool 闽阳小学.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back tothe temple 接神, and the first opera is performed 头场戏. On 1/6 the incenseburners of Chunxing dongshê 淳兴东社 are taken on procession. On 1/7 theincense burners of Longjin zushê 龙津祖社 are taken on procession. On 1/8the incense burners of Longjin xishê 龙津西社 are taken on procession. On1/9 the incense burners of Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社 are taken on procession. Between 1/21–2/5, on a day determined by divination, the incenseburners and gods of 龙津庙 Longjin miao are taken on procession.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Zongxiatang 宗夏堂. Marionette plays are performed.2/16: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Longjin zushê 龙津祖社 is held. Opera is performedfor two days.During the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chunxing dongshê 淳兴东社, Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社 and Longjin xishê 龙津西社 is held. Opera is performed for two days.4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. Opera is performed for two days.9/9: The celebration of Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 is held. Opera is performedfor two days.10/28: The rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime Xiayuan pudu下元普度 are held, organized by the Xingxiatang 行夏堂. Opera isperformed for two days.5. Ritual GroupsThere used to be Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums) in the past. Currently,there is only one Shentong 神童, who is Futi 附体 possessed by YangJiuniang 杨九娘. This Shentong 神童 is a woman in her thirties who wasmarried into the local community from the outside. It is said that during theCultural Revolution, some people kept certain items taken from temples astheir own. All these people were pointed out by her during the ceremony ofthe descending of the gods.
