A014 Puban qijing (Puban sevenfold ritual alliance) 蒲坂七境Puban is also known as Tuban 土阪 and Simali 司马里 sub-canton. Puban islocated alongside the Shangxiaqu 上下渠 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. It was part of the Pubanpu 蒲阪铺 (police/defense unit) of theNanli sub-canton 南力里. In the Ming the area had the village of Puban 蒲阪,which in the Qing divided off into the village of Shangdun 上墩. Currentlythe area has divided into the seven large settlements of Houzheng 后郑,Xijiao 西角, Yaogou 腰沟, Goucen 沟岑, Shangdun 上墩, Houdai 后代, andPeiwei 沛尾. The entire area currently has over 6000 people The main livelihood is agriculture. There is a shortage of agricultural land. During the LandReform movement, each person was distributed a mu (1/6th of an acre) ofland, but now each person can only get around half of the previous amount.There is also a shortage of water. The local people once fought with thosefrom Donggou 东沟 over water rights.The Qixingmiao 七星庙 temple located in Houzheng 后郑 village is themain overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Lufudashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The secondary god is Mao zhongjun 毛中军. Every twelve years, the gods of theQixingmiao 七星庙 are invited on a procession around the villages of thesevenfold alliance of Puban.The main surname groups of the Puban ritual alliance are the Zheng 郑and the Dai 戴. In addition there are the smaller surname groups Lin 林,Zhu 朱 and Guan 关. The Zheng lineage name is “Nanhu Zheng” 南湖郑氏. The Zheng of Puban first moved from the South Gate of Putian walledcity after they were bullied by the Lin 林. They moved first to Yangcheng洋埕 and Yangzhong 洋中, and later moved to Puban. In the Ming Zhengdeperiod (1506–1521), the local resident Zheng Yue 郑岳, who had served asVice-Minister of Revenue, had a tertiary irrigation canal dug leading intothe Puban area from a secondary channel of the Mulan irrigation system.This would cause large-scale problems within the irrigation system as awhole, but it did bring immediate benefit to the Puban area. Zheng Yue alsobuilt the Puban lishê 蒲阪里社. The Zheng now occupy the four villages ofXijiao 西角, Houzheng 后郑, Yaogou 腰沟, and Goucen 沟岑. The Zhengmake up more than 3000 people. The Dai 戴 have more than 1700 people.They are settled in Houdaijiao 后戴角 village. The Lin 林 and the Zhu 朱each have more than 100 people.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Pubansevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance.
