A015 Xiaban qijing (Xiaban sevenfold ritual alliance) 下阪七境The Xiaban sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Shangxiaqu mainchannel of the Mulan irrigation system. The area was part of the villages ofthe Xiabanpu 下阪铺 (police/defense unit) and the Shanping Huangcuopu山屏黄厝铺, both of which were part of the Nanlili sub-canton 南力里. Therewere two villages here in the Ming, namely Xiaban 下阪 and Shanping 山坪.In the Qing the following villages divided off: Xiahe 下何, Huangcuo 黄厝and Houxiang 后巷. Currently the overall population is over 4000 people.The temple ritual system is divided into seven ritual organizations (qijing).The main livelihood is from agriculture and raising fruit trees.The Xianshuitan 仙水坛 of Zhongjing 中境village is the main overalltemple of the seven village ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Hushan dawang 壶山大王, Qianliyan 千里眼and Wanlier 万里耳. Eachyear on 1/22–23 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are carried in a procession through the seven ritual organizations ofthe alliance 巡游七境. On 3/23, the birthday of 天上圣母, 5/13, the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王, 8/15 the Mid-autumn festival 中秋节,and 9/9, the ascension to heaven date of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母升天日, the seven ritual organizations jointly sponsor opera performances atthe temple. These activities are managed by the Xianshuitan temple management committee.The Chen 陈, Hong 洪 and Li 李 were prominent local lineages who produced successful examination graduates. In Ming Xuande 5 (1430) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan memorial archway 解元牌坊 in Xiaban village 下阪 on behalf of Li Pu 李蒲. In Ming Tianshun 7 (1463), theRegional Inspector 巡按御史 set up an E Luo 峨寽 memorial archway inShanping 山坪 for the Hong 洪 lineage.In Ming Hongzhi 13 (1500) the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up aSanshi qingyun 三世青云牌坊 (Three generations of blue-green clouds)memorial archway in Xiaban 下阪 in commemoration of the generations ofsuccessful members of the Zhang 张lineage living there.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of theXiaban sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the black banneralliance.
