A017 Dongjiao six shê allianceis taken on a procession through the six villages of the ritual alliance. Eachyear with an intercalary third lunar month, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母is taken on a pilgrimage to Meizhou 湄洲 island to request incense from themother temple of the Mazu cult. This cluster of villages also has over fiftyChristian households.The main surname groups are the Song 宋, Zheng 郑, Li 李, and Wu 吴.The Song 宋 have approximately 2500 people. It is said that the ancestorsof the Songs emigrated from Putian city. The Song lineage is divided intofour branches, of which the first branch moved to Duwei 度尾 in Huangshi黄石, and there is only one household of the first branch remaining inthe village. The second branch makes up the majority of the Song in theDongjiao 东郊村 area. The third branch has more than 100 people while thefourth branch has only one or two households. The Zheng 郑 moved to thisarea from Puban 蒲阪, and are divided into four branches: the First Branch头房, Houcuo 后厝, Xicuoli 西厝里, and Fourth Branch 四房, of whichthe Houcuo branch has the most people, at approximately 300 people.There used to be an ancestral hall, but it was later burnt down. The Houcuobranch used to have a lineage genealogy, but it has been lost. Their ancestral tombs are in lower Hushi township 下笏石. Having moved to Dongjiaofrom Xili 西利 in Huangshi 黄石, the Li 李 lineage is now divided intofive branches: Xiacuo 下厝, Toucuo 头厝, Tingjingtou 厅井头, Xibian 西边and Xincuoding 新厝顶, of which Houcuo has the most people, with morethan 500 people. There is a lineage genealogy which is identical to that ofthe Li of Yangwei 洋尾李氏. The Wu 吴 have over 100 people, and aredivided into three lineage branches: With more than 100 people, the Xianbranch 贤房 has the most people. The first branch only has one householdremaining.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Dongjiaosix village ritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance.
temple was built during the Ming Hongwu period(1368–1398) and was restored during the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850),and then was rebuilt in 1991. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondarygods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王.Each year with an intercalary second lunar month, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣
