A020 Qiantang sevenfold ritual alliancemen who carry the incense burners 头炉) are selected in rotation to managethe ritual activities of the year.3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Changningshê 钱塘境常宁社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondarygods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wencaowubang 文曹武判.2) Lingyinggong 灵应宫 is dedicated to Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅,Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qiugongyuanshuai 邱公元帅. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Cijizhenjun 慈济真君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima鲁府姨妈 and Huating xiangu 花亭仙姑.3) Qingsongtang 青松堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.4) Zhumating 驻马亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Way. Opera isperformed. On 2/15 Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 of Lingyinggong 灵应宫along with Liugong 刘公, Zhanggong 张公 and Qiugong 邱公 go on procession through the four village alliance, opera is performed and Daoist ritualmasters are invited to conduct Jiao rituals 做醮. These events are organizedby the four village alliance as a whole.Birthday celebrations of the gods6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with operas.9/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with operas. Two pigs are sacrificed and Daoists areinvited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮.10/1: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held with operas,and Daoist ritual masters conduct jiao rites 做醮.
ing feuding banner associations, the inner four-fold ritualassociations villages of Qiantang 钱塘, Lingding 岭顶, Houyuan 后院 andHouxu 后许 were part of the black banner alliance. The outer three-foldritual associations of the villages of Huangyuan 黄园, Xiazhuang 下庄, andShangkeng 上坑 belonged to the red banner (neutral) village alliance. Itis said that the latter villages were once part of the twenty-four wards ofHuangshi ritual alliance, and they still participate in the ritual activities ofthat alliance.
