A024 Huangshi bashê (Huangshi eight shê ritual alliance) 黄石八社The eight shê of Huangshi are located along the streets and lanes of Huangshitown. This area was part of the Longguilingpu 龙桂岭铺, the Linqingpu 临青铺, the Shujiepu 书街铺, the Dongzhenpu 东圳铺 of the Jingdeli subcanton 景德里 and the Anxingpu 安兴铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming, Huangshi was already a market town, and was already calleda qijing (sevenfold ritual alliance). Currently, this area is managed by theHuangshi Residential Committee. The temple ritual system is divided intothe following eight shê altars: Guiling 桂岭, Tingxia 亭下, Dongjing 东井,Tangwei 塘尾, Shuyuankou 书院口, Shixia 市下, Shuangxingjing 双星井,and Anxing 安兴.The Shuinan Tianhougong 水南天后宫 of Guiling village is the main temple for the eight shê of Huangshi town. The temple was built in the MingHongwu period (1368–98), and was rebuilt and changed into the ShuinanHuiguan 水南会馆 in Qianlong 60 (1795). The main goddess is Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 1/15 the eight shê of Huangshi holda general Yuanxiao festival, and a collective procession. Each year with anintercalary third lunar month, they invite Tianshang shengmu to go on procession to all the eight shê of Huangshi.This region has long been famous for producing examination graduates,and in the Ming Huangshi town had 56 Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and 193 Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The most prominent lineages were the Fang 方, Huang 黄, Ye 叶, Song 宋, and Weng 翁. In SongQiandao 8 (1172) a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway was set up for HuangAi 黄艾. In Ming Zhengtong 8(1443) a Zhuangyuan (First Place) 状元牌坊memorial archway was set up in honor of Fang Xie 方澥. In Ming Chenghua8 (1472) a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Lin Zheng 林正.In Ming Chenghua 16 (1480) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway wasset up for Fang Yue 方岳. Also during the Chenghua period (1465–1487)another Jinyi guidi 锦衣归第牌坊 memorial archway was set up for FangXin 方新. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499) a Sishi qingyun 四世青云牌坊 (Fourgenerations of graduates) memorial archway was set up for the Ye lineage 叶.In Ming Hongzhi 14 (1501) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set upfor Weng Maonan 翁茂南 and a Xiongdi jinshi 兄弟进士牌坊 (two brothers both Metropolitan Graduates) memorial archway was set up for the Songlineage 宋. Finally, in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1505) a Zhoubo 州伯牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Huang Wanshuo 黄万硕.In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the eight shê ofHuangshi were all part of the red banner alliance.
