A026 The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed.Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊.Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Mariontetteopera is performed.The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Mariontette operais performed.The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera isperformed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 rites are performed.Dengying wucun (Dengying five village ritual alliance) 登瀛五村The five village ritual alliance of Dengying is located along the main channelof the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice gate 洋城斗门. The area was part of the Dengyingpu 登瀛铺 (police/defense unit) ofthe Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming there were two villages here,Kengbing 坑柄 and Xiawu 下吴. In the Qing three villages separated off:Wucheng 吴埕, Chengwei 埕尾, and Keli 珂里. Currently the region isadministered by the Dengying Administrative Village 登瀛行政村.The Dengying shushê 登瀛书社 temple, located in Keli 珂里 village, is thefounding shê temple of the five village alliance of Dengying. The main godsare Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Formerly thefive village alliance held a collective procession and rites, but these have notyet been revived.During the Song, this area was settled by the Wu surname 吴, and in theMing the Wu and the Chen 陈 lineages produced examination graduates.In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) a Dengyun 登云牌坊 memorial archway wasset up in honor of Chen Ying 陈莹. In Ming Tianshun 6 (1462) a Jinshimemorial archway 进士牌坊 was set up in honor of Chen Zai 陈载. And inMing Chenghua 1 (1465), Wu Xixian 吴希贤 was honored with a Dengyingmemorial archway 登瀛牌坊.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five village ritual alliance of Dengying were all members of the red banner alliance.
