A028 Xihong six shê ritual allianceZhaoyuanshuai 赵元帅. Rear hall is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼.Side altars: Yuzhu tianzun 玉珠天尊, Leibu tianzun 雷部天尊, Lingguantianzun 灵官天尊, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 states thatthere are 500 initiates.2) Xingfushê 兴福社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, this temple belongs to theXu 许. Middle: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃.3) Fuxingshê 福兴社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, this temple belongs to theLi 李. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Simashengwang司马圣王, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃.4) Fuanshê 福安社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, it belongs to the Guo 郭.Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars:Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃.5) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, it belongs to the Li 李.Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars:Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃.6) Shangxianshê 上贤社: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, it belongs to the Lin 林and the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is lifted up during the Yuanxiao processions.7) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: Located in Xizhi 西至, it belongs to the Chen 陈.Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars:Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃.8) Mingdean 明德庵 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:219)9) Yaofeng temple 遥丰寺. (PTZJZ, 1992:219)10) Mingdaotang 明道堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:14 claims that there are 1331 initiates.11) Mingdeng zuci 明登祖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. TheSJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 880 initiates.12) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:14 claims that there are 950 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Fuxingshê 福兴社 invites Simashengwang 司马圣王 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/8,Xingfushê 兴福社 invites Baima xianggong 白马相公 to go on processionwithin Dongzhi 东至. On 1/10, Shangxianshê 上贤社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession withinZhonggu 中谷. On 1/11, Fuanshê 福安社 invites Baima xianggong 白马相公 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/12, Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go onprocession within Zhonggu 中谷. On 1/16, a common Yuanxiao celebrationis held. Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is invited to go on procession within theentire village. The beating of the gongs and the carrying of the sedan chairsare left to the children. The adults lead the way. One to three Daoist ritualmasters 师公 are invited. A daochang 道场 Daoist altar is set up.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/25: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days.3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera isperformed for three days.4/8: The birthday celebration of Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Opera is performed for two days.In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. Opera is performed for threedays. The god is taken on procession around the entire village.5/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. Opera is performed for twodays.7/28: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 of Yuxici玉溪祠. Opera is performed for two days. Seven scripture master areinvited. A daochang 道场 is set up and the Jiao is constructed 建醮.The Three in One temples of every region send representatives toparticipate.8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinxian shushê 兴贤书社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the entire three shêalliance.9/3: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社. Opera is performed for twodays.9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Fuanshê 福安社. Opera is performed for twodays.10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xingfushê 兴福社. Opera is performed for twodays.10/29: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the LowerPrime are conducted. Water lanterns 水灯 are released using boats.Food and offerings are placed at unclean places (where there arewater ghosts). Marionette versions of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 areperformed for two days. Services are done for all the villagers whodied an unnatural death. Five to seven Daoist ritual masters 师公 areinvited.In the 11th lunar month: on a day determined by divination, Xiayuan pudu下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conductedby Three in One Scripture masters 经师 in groups of nine, and a Ritual Spaceof the Dao (daochang) 道场 is set up. Marionette plays of Mulian opera目莲戏 are performed for two days.
