A035 Jingpu wushê (Jingpu five shê ritual alliance) 井埔五社The five shê alliance of Jingpu is located in between the main channel ofthe Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟 and the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟. These villages were partof the Zhupu Tashanpu 珠埔塔山铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjianglisub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, this area already had the four villages ofJingpu 井埔, Houzhu 后洙, Tashan 塔山 and Longxiang 龙巷. In the Qing,the villages of Taihu 太湖 and Puding 铺顶 separated off. Currently the areahas over 3000 people, all of whom are under the administration of the Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. The temple ritual system is dividedaccording to lineage and settlements into five shê ritual associations.The Xianjimiao 显济庙 temple, located in Jingpu 井埔村 village, is themain temple for the five shê ritual alliance. The main god of the temple isWeiling Jiayouhou 威灵嘉佑侯. Every twelve years, the god is taken on aprocession to the five shê of the alliance, and on to the streets and templesof Huangshi 黄石 town. These events are organized by a temple management committee made up of representatives from each of the five shê ritualassociations.In this area, the Zhu 朱, Wu 吴, Huang 黄, and Zhuo 卓 lineages wereprominent lineages known for their examination graduates. In the Ming,the Zhu lineage 朱 produced six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan graduates) andtwenty-four Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Wu lineage was a closesecond, with six Jinshi and twenty-three Juren. The Huang lineage producedfive Jinshi and fifteen Juren, and the Zhuo lineage produced one Jinshi andfour Juren. In Ming Tianshun 1 (1457) a Regional Inspector 巡按御史 setup a Liwei jingkui 礼闱经魁牌坊 memorial archway for the Zhuo lineage卓. In Ming Hongzhi 14 (1501) the Assistant Surveillance Commissioner按察司佥事 set up a Jinbang lianfang 金榜联芳牌坊 memorial archway forthe Wu lineage 吴. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499) the Surveillance Vice Commissioner 按察司副 set up a Shaoqing 少卿牌坊 memorial archway for theWu lineage 吴.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five shê alliance ofJinpu all were part of the red banner alliance.
