A037  Tangxia shisanxiang (Tangxia Thirteen village ritual alliance) 塘下十三乡The thirteen village alliance of Tangxia is located along the Houyang 后洋main channel of the Mulan irrigation system, and it also borders on theGuoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This area was originally part of the Putianli subcanton 莆田里. Later the area was reassigned to the Shadipu 沙堤铺 (police/self defense unit) and Kangcuopu 康厝铺 of Liangjiangli sub-canton 连江里.In the Ming, village of Tangxia 塘下 was already settled, and in the Qingseveral villages separated off, including Goujiao 沟角, Qiangou 前沟, Dongqiaotou 东桥头, Xiqiao 西桥, Qianyuan 前园, Kangcuo 康厝 and Datie 打铁.Currently there are over 8000 people in the thirteen village ritual alliance.The villages of the alliance which are managed by the two AdministrativeVillages of Shadi 沙堤 and Tianma 天马. The temple ritual system is dividedinto thirteen villages: Wuxiang 梧巷, Xiangkou 巷口, Gouding 沟顶, Xiaxincuo 下新厝, Dongzhang 东张, Xizhang 西张, Xigou 西沟, Xiyuan 西园,Zhucuo 朱厝, Kangcuo 康厝, Huangcuo 黄厝, Wucuo 吴厝, and Shanqianzi山前仔. These are known as the Tangxia thirteen village ritual alliance.The Houguomiao 后果庙 and the Qilongtan 起龙潭 temples, locatedin Zhucuo 朱厝 village, and the Xianzhougong 仙洲宫 temple located inDongzhang 东张 village, are the main temples of the Tangxia thirteen village alliance 总宫. The main god of Houguomiao 后果庙 is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and every year with an intercalary lunar fourth month thegod goes on a procession through the thirteen villages of the alliance. Themain gods of Qilongtan 起龙潭 are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Every twelve years these gods go on a procession around the thirteen villages of the alliance. Finally, the main god of theXianzhougong 仙洲宫 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and every year withan intercalary luanr third month, there is a procession around the thirteenvillages of the alliance.The main surname groups of this area are the Zhu 朱, Zhang 张 andHuang 黄. There are also the minor surname groups of the Chen 陈, Kang康, Wu 吴, Xu 许 and Wang 王. The Zhu came from Dongjing 东井 ofHuangshi 黄石. There currently exists a Zhu lineage ancestral hall 朱氏宗祠 and a Zhu lineage genealogy 朱氏族谱. The Zhang came from Hengtang横塘 of Huangshi, while the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang涵江. In the Ming, Shadi 沙堤 was famous for its examination graduates,and the five lineages of the Zhang 张, Huang 黄, Zhu 朱, Chen 陈 and Wang王 produced altogether fourteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) andforty-two Juren 举人 (Provinical Graduates). In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), theXinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan 解元牌坊 memorial archwayin honor of the Xu lineage 许. In Ming Tianshun 1 (1457), the XinghuaAssistant Prefect 兴化府通判 set up a Jingkui 经魁牌坊 memorial archwayin honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In Ming Chenghua 1 (1465), the XinghuaPrefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor ofthe Zhang lineage 张. In Ming Chenghua 8 (1472), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Minkui 闽魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huanglineage 黄. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set upa Qiaozi lianfang 桥梓联芳牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhanglineage 张. In the Ming Chenghua and Hongzhi periods (1465–1505), theXinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Shuangfeng 双凤牌坊 and a Lianxian联宪牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄.In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, the thirteen villagesof the Tangxia ritual alliance all belonged to the black banner alliance.
