A042 The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera isperformed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every lunarthird month, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on processionwithin the four-fold jia.The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters areinvited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinanshê 新安社 of Dongjia 东甲. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is celebrated as a midautumn festival.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinanshê 新安社. Opera is performed. Daoistmasters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.Dongshan sishê (Dongshan four shê ritual alliance) 东山四社Dongshan is also called ZouZengXu 邹曾徐 and Sancuo 三厝. It is locatedbetween the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigationsystem and the coastal sea dikes below the mouth of the Mulan river, nearthe Dongshan sluice-gate. It was originally part of the Zouzengxupu 邹曾徐铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. In this area in the Ming therealready was a village called Zou Zeng Xu 邹曾徐. Currently, the populationof Dongshan is over 10,000 people, and it is managed by two AdministrativeVillages: Dongshan 东山行政村 and Dongyuan 东源行政村. The templeritual system is divided on the basis of residence and lineage into the fourshê ritual associations of Shangzou 上邹, Xiazou 下邹, Dongcuo 东厝, andZhengcuo 郑厝. The Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 of Shangzou village 上邹 (seebelow) is the main temple for the four shê ritual association.The two main surnames of this area are the Zou 邹 and the Zheng 郑. TheZou have over 6000 people. The Zou ancestors are said to have emigratedfrom Zou county of Shandong province 山东邹县 to Putian 莆田 duringthe Jianyan period of the Southern Song Dynasty (1127–1130). In the Mingdynasty, the Zou were a prominent lineage with many successful examinationgraduates. They produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) andseven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Fancan Family Temple 藩参家庙, first built in Ming Jiajing 29 (1550) and still extant, is the ancestral lineage hall of the Zou of Dongshan 东山, as well as of the Zou of Xindu 新度and Xiyuan 西园, etc.In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four shê of Dongshanwere part of the black banner alliance.
