A045 Houji qijing sevenfold ritual allianceSecondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yangshi jiuniang杨氏九娘, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷.2) Dongxingdian 东兴殿: The main god is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Secondary gods include Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅.3) Chongxingan 重兴庵: The main god is Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Secondarygods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝.4) Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 is in Dongcuojing ritual territory 东厝境: Themain gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人.Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufuyima 鲁府姨妈, and Aoshen 澳神.5) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑6) Jufengting 举风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士.7) Shayundong 沙云洞: The main god is Daye 大爷.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Dongshan region 东山境invites all the gods of Shiwushê 石屋社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conducta Jiao ritual. The celebration is organized by the territory itself, and fundsare collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 the Dongcuojing 东厝境 invitesall the gods of the Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 and the Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoistritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized bythe territory itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1,the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goeson procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basisfrom throughout the entire ritual alliance.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized byMingtongdian 明通殿 and funding is collected through voluntarycontributions. Beidou marionette opera 北斗戏 is performed.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized bythe whole village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis.5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Marionette playsare performed. The celebration is organized by the Dongxingdian东兴殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions.8/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Dongshanjing 东山境,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.10/28: The birthday celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣候 is also theoccasion for the performance of the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites ofUniversal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts, which involves the performance of Mulien plays 目莲戏 (usually with marionettes). Threein One Scripture Masters 经师 are invited to perform the rites. Thisevent is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on aper capita basis.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. This is organized by the Dongcuo region 东厝, and funds arecollected on a per capita basis.8/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Shiwushê 石屋社. Opera is performed, and Daoistritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongshan ritual territory and funds are collected on aper capita basis.8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社. Opera is performed,and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These eventsare organized by the Dongcuo 东厝 ritual territory and funds arecollected on a per capita basis.10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events areorganized by the Dongcuo 东厝 ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis.10/28: The birthday celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣候 is also theoccasion for the performance of the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites ofUniversal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts, which involves the performance of Mulien plays 目莲戏 (usually with marionettes). Threein One Scripture Masters 经师 are invited to perform the rites.
