A048 Zhengtang five shê ritual alliance3) Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社 is within the Yanningmiao 延宁庙 andbelongs to the Fan 范. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 andHoutu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅and Lifu daren 李府大人.4) Hou’an huangshê 后安黄社 belongs to the Huang 黄. The main godsare Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondarygods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutianyuanshuai 都天元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Zouma sheren 走马舍人.5) Weilonggong 威龙宫 belongs to the Huang 黄. The main god is Jindaren金大人, secondary gods include a pair of generals 两位将军. On 12/17 marionette plays are performed.6) Houan zhengshê 后安正社 of Longqinggong 龙清宫 belongs to the Chen陈. The main gods are are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Guanyindashi 观音大士 and Tiansheng shengmu 天上圣母.7) Budongtang 步东堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:20 claims that there are 346 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the Qianlongshê 前隆社 carriesthe Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession aroundits own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/6 theZhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社 carries Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tourof inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is aprocession of lanterns. On 1/7 the Houan Huangshê 后安黄社 carries theZunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around itsown territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/8 theFangtang zushê 方塘祖社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tourof inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is aprocession of lanterns. On 1/9 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Houanzhengshê 后安正社 is invited on a tour of inspection procession around itsown territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/20 thevillage holds a general Yuanxiao festival. However, because in recent yearsthe various processions from the different shê clashed, there is no longer ageneral Yuanxiao festival held in the village.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/1: Yanggong taishi of Fengshangong 凤山宫杨公太师 goes on procession through the Tangxia thirteen village alliance 塘下十三乡, andstays in the village in the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 and the Houanhuangshê 后安黄社接驾. Opera is performed for two days.8/23: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Qianlongshê 前隆社.Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by theHuang 黄.10/16: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社. Opera is performed for twodays. This event is organized by the Fang 方.11/1: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Houan huangshê 后安黄社. Opera is performed for twodays. This event is organized by the Huang 黄.12/17: Celebrations for Jindaren 金大人 of Weilonggong 威龙宫. Marionette plays are peformed. This event is organized by the Huang.12/23: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社. Opera is performed fortwo days. This event is organized by the Fan 范.
