A050 Lantian shibaxiang (Lantian eighteen village alliance) 蓝田十八乡The eighteen village alliance of Lantian is located alongside the Guoqingtang国清塘Reservoir. In the early Qing, this area was declared out of bounds(jiewai 界外) and was evacuated. In the Ming the village of Lantian 蓝田(Nantian 南田) was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Zhengjing郑井 (Danjing 丹井), Muqian 墓前, Houwuzi 后吴仔, Guanpu 官埔, Xiazheng 下郑 (Xiacheng 霞城), Shangxin 上辛, Mubing 墓柄, Shidou 石兜,Guanhu 官湖, Chenxi 陈溪, Xucuo 徐厝, Zhangcuo 章厝, Shantouxia 山头下,Ketang 可塘, Houxiang 后巷, Kengdong 坑东, Lingkou 岭口, Dongsha 东沙,Caomang 草莽, Sutang 苏塘 (Zhutang 珠塘) were settled. Recently, the villagesof Dingkengyuan 顶坑园, Chuandu 船渡, Songmu 宋墓 (Dongyuan 东园),Shantou 山头 and Fuling 福岭 and other villages have also joined in theLantian eighteen village alliance ritual system, so that there is now a totalof over twenty villages in the alliance. This area was originally part of theLantianpu (police/defense unit) 蓝田铺, the Fulingpu 福岭铺, the Xinzhengpu 辛郑铺 and the Shihu luozhaipu 石湖罗宅铺 of the Hepuli sub-canton合浦里. These villages are managed by four Administrative Villages: Xiazheng 下郑, Laitang 来塘, Laizhai 濑宅 and Sutang 苏塘行政村.The Yongangong 永安宫 temple, located in Lantian 蓝田 village, is themain temple for the eighteen village ritual alliance. The main god worshippedin the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each year on lunar 3/3, divination blocks are cast in the Yongangong 永安宫 to determine whether ornot to invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on procession through theeighteen village alliance. At the same time, by casting divination blocks aXunbu 巡捕 Inspector of the Pu police/defense unit is selected. This individual dresses as a Qing dynasty Pu Inspector and reports to the official Puheadquarters (guanpu 官埔). Thereupon begins the striking of the streets(dajie 打街) rite to clear the way for the god. Only then is Xuantian shangdi玄天上帝 invited out to go on procession.In the late Qing feuding banner alliances, the eighteen villages of Lantianare all part of the black banner alliance.
