A053  Hushi shangshibaxiang (Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance) 笏石上十四乡The Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance is located on the southernedge of the Guqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing this area was madeout of bounds 界外, and these villages were forcibly evacuated. The regionwas divided up into the Xishanpu 西山铺, the Chicenpu 赤岑铺 and theSanshepu 三社铺 (police/defense units) of the Gouqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming there were two villages in this area, namely Chicen 赤岑and Yangshan 杨山. In the Qing, the following villages separated off: Xishan西山, Shandou 山兜, Bitou 泌头, Houshê 后社, Xushê 徐厝, Dongxingtou东硎头 (Dengaotou 登鳌头), Xijin 西津, Dongcai 东蔡, and Xicai 西蔡.At the end of the Qing, the following villages were settled: Songting 松亭,Linkeng 林坑, Qianlin 前林, Yuanqian 院前, Qianzheng 前郑, Dapu 大埔,Lingxia 岭下, and Shanglin 上林. The current population of this area is over10,000 people, who are managed through five Administrative Villages: Xixu西徐, Bajin 坝津, Lingmei 岭美, Yanglin 杨林, and Liucuo 刘厝.Chengshangong 城山宫 temple, located in Xucuo village 徐厝, andWanyunge 万云阁 temple of Yuanqian village 院前村, are the two maintemples for the upper fourteen village alliance. Each year with an intercalarylunar month, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母of Chengshangong and Chen dage 陈大哥 of Wanyunge are carried in aprocession around the upper fourteen village alliance (now expanded toeighteen villages). In addition, the upper fourteen village alliance originallyincluded the villages of Tiancen 田岑 and Xiyuan erxiang 西园二乡, both ofwhich no longer exist. Moreover, the villages of Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜and Bitou 泌头, which belonged to the alliance, now have established theirown relatively independent ritual system. Villages which do not belong to thetwenty-eight village alliance but still participate in the ritual activities of theupper fourteen village alliance include Xiawei 下尾, Dinggu 定固 (Chenmu陈墓), and Houzhu 后洙.In the feuding banner alliance of the end of the Qing, the villages ofthe Hushi lower fourteen village alliance were all part of the white banneralliance.
