A058  Lingyun shangshibaxiang (Lingyun eighteen village ritual alliance)凌云上十八乡The Lingyun upper eighteen village alliance is located at the feet of theHugong Mountain 壶公山麓 at the far reaches of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system of the Southern irrigated plain. In the early Qing, these villageswere declared out of bounds 界外, and they were forcibly evacuated. Thisarea was part of the Meilong qianpupu 梅陇前埔铺 (police/defense unit),the Shentang longjinpu 沈塘龙津铺, the Lingcuopu 凌厝铺 and the Qianting Qicaipu 前亭祁蔡铺of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton and the Chicenpu赤岑铺 of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Xintang 新塘, Jiaojinyang 交津洋, Meilong 梅陇, Daban 大阪, andQiling 祁凌. In the early Qing the following villages separated off: Longcuo陇厝, Qianpu 前埔, Xincuo 新厝, Gouwei 沟尾, Qianwei 前尾, Lingcuo凌厝, Qianting 前亭, Qicuo 祁厝, Caicuo 蔡厝, Dongsong 东宋, Huangzhaipu 黄宅埔, Liucuo 刘厝, and Yingcuo 缨厝. More recently, the following villages have separated off: Xiagou 下沟, Yingbian 营边, Kengbei 坑北,and Baita 白塔. There are now over twenty natural villages in the area, whichare managed by the following eight Administrative Villages: Gouwei 沟尾,Longtou 龙头, Daban 大坂, Dongsong 东宋, Lingcuo 凌厝, Liucuo 刘厝,Qicuo 歧厝, Lingmei 岭美.Mingshangong 名山宫 temple, which is located on the foothills of Hushanmountain 壶公山 in the Shanxiangjing 善乡境 is the main temple for theupper eighteen village alliance. The main god of the temple is Huanggongyuanshuai 黄公元帅, whose feast day is celebrated on lunar 8/9. The secondary gods are Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母, Haoyu dishi 俣玉帝师 (Mingshanwang 名山王), Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun五路将军, Xugong taibao 徐公太保, Dianqian sijiangjun 殿前四位将军:Jin, 金, Wei 魏, Dong 董, Li 李. The temple complex was expanded in 1991to include the Shaoxingsi 绍兴寺, situated on the left of the Mingshangong.This monastery was in existence already in the Sui Dynasty, and is dedicatedto Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with secondary gods Jintong 金童, Yunü 玉女,Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. Also attached to the temple is the Jiuxiandong九仙洞 cavern-temple. The villages of the alliance take turns inviting thegods of this temple to their home village temples to watch opera. Each yearwith an intercalary second lunar month, the gods go on a procession to allthe eighteen villages of the ritual alliance.Historically, the Xu lineage of Meilong 梅陇徐氏 and the Zheng 郑 lineage of Daban, were two prominent lineages in this area renowned for theirexamination graduates. In the Ming the Xu lineage produced three Jinshi进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eight Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates)while the Zheng lineage produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates)and two Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates).In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the eighteen villages of theLinyun upper alliance were all part of the black banner alliance.
