A059 Hengtang seven jia ritual allianceshê altar was built in the village even back during the Tang Dynasty. TheZhang later branched out to Putian 莆田, including Yaotai 瑶台, Shaban沙坂, Shadi 沙堤, Shanxiang 善乡, Kengbing 坑柄, Yangdai 洋岱, Yangwei洋尾, Chiqi 赤崎, Nanri 南日. Each year, there are seven people who areselected in rotation to be Fushou 福首: five come from the Zhang surnamegroup, and one each from the Zheng and the Huang surname groups.3. Village temples 1) Hengqujing Wananshê 横渠境万安社 (Hengtanglishê 横塘里社): Renovated in 1986. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Zhoutaibao 周太保. Right altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Chen dashi 陈大使.2) Shilanggong 石廊宫: Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wushishengfei 吴氏圣妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Left altar: Zhengshun shenghou 正顺圣侯. Right altar: Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 (Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯).3) Baotanchan 宝坛阐: Its original site was the Gushetan 古社坛 of Baofushê 保福社, which was the ancestral shê (zushe) of Hengtang 横塘, Xintang 新塘, Tangtou 塘头, Xikeng 西坑, Xihu 西湖 and Gouwei 沟尾. Thecarved couplets on the pillars of the temple read: 法绍庐山资保福, indicating a connection with Lushan Daoism. There is also an extent stele from1936 entitled “Stele Record of the reconstruction of the Precious Altar”(重建宝坛阐碑记). Worshipped on the middle altar are Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Jianlei yushi 监雷御史, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人), Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wugong shenghou 伍公圣侯.4) Zhongshantang 中山堂 was built in Guangxu 27 (1901). This temple isnow in its fifth generation of initiates now, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu三一教主. On the left altar: San feng zhen ren 三峰真人. On the right altar:Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1100initiates.5) Qiushenmiao 邱神庙 was rebuilt in 1992 and is dedicated to Qiu laoye邱老爷.6) Qinglanting 清兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.7) Linyundian 灵云殿 was rebuilt in recent years, and the main god isYuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝8) Ruyitang Buddhist hall 如义堂 was built in 1943. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217)9) Shanfutang Buddhist hall 善福堂 was built in 1884. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217)10) Xihusi Buddhist temple 西壶寺 was built in 1961. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217)4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–16, the five-jia of the Zhang 张surname group take turns in inviting Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go onprocession. Opera is performed for three days, and the joy candles 喜烛 arelit. On 1/17, the Xiazhujia 下洙甲 of the Zheng 郑 surname group invitesWugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go on procession. On 1/18, the Gouhanjia沟汵甲 of the Huang 黄 surname group invites Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go on procession. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held forthe entire village. Spirit mediums seal the roadways (Fenglu 封路). Opera isperformed for three days, and a Jiao ritual is conducted.Birthday celebrations of the gods2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士.2/10: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/18: The birthday celebration of Wugong shenghou 伍公圣侯. Daoist ritual masters are invited to pray for the safety and health of the entirevillage in groups of five.5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王.6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuozhenren 卓真人 is organized byZhongshantang 中山堂. Marionette plays are performed.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionetteplays are performed.7/10: The celebration of Qiu laoye 邱老爷 is held. Opera is performed andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.8/4: The birthday celebration of Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯.9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士.10/29: The birthday celebration of Mengdage 孟大哥. Opera is performedand Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted at the Zhongshantang 中山堂for the hungry ghosts.11/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held.