V008 Xiahengshan 下横山1. Village settlement The village of Xiahengshan is part of the XiahengshanAdministrative Village 下横山行政村. The village currently has a populationof 2400 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Ou 欧,and the Weng 翁. The Chen are part of the Chen of Yuhu 玉湖陈 of Kuokou阔口 in Chengxiang 城厢. The Chen are divided into four lineage branches:first branch, second branch, third branch, and fourth branch. There wereoriginally two Chen ancestral halls 陈氏祠堂, but only one still exists today.It is said that Hengshan originally had surnames such as the Liu 刘, Zhang张, Xu 徐, Zhu 朱, but that they all disappeared after the invasion of thepirates during the Jiajing period (1522–1566). There are two long dragonboats maintained by the village for races.3. Village temples 1) Hongyingshê 通应社: The main gods are Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods includeSima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神.2) Heyingdong 赫应洞: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Kongfu daren 孔府大人 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅.3) Ciyungong 慈云宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama鲁府大妈, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.4) Dongshanfu 东山府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondarygods includde Liu duxun 刘都巡, Wang junzhu 王郡主, Wang daren 王大人, Wu zhongjun 武中军, Jin guniang 金姑娘, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣,Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄.5) Baoshengyuan 宝胜院 was rebuilt in Guangxu 2 (1876). The main god isDutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Wuhu jiangjun 五虎将军.6) Longquansi 龙泉寺 was renovated 1932 and in 1993. The main god isShijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主,Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝, and the eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君,Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wuhu jialuo五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人go on procession within the village. There are three Fushou selected everyyear. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. On 2/1, Toufu 头福 iscelebrated. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a percapita basis.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god istaken on a procession within the village as well as to the villages ofShanghengshan 上横山, Puzi 莆仔 and Longqian 龙前. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Theseevents are organized by Longqian taishimiao 龙前太师庙, and fundsare collected on a per capita basis.5/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人is organized by the village as a whole.7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized byCiyundong 慈云洞.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized bythe village as a whole.8/15: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized byDongshanfu 东山府.9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organizedby the village as a whole.On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invitedto conduct rites. The village or the temple and its community organizes theevent and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
