V011 Goukou 沟口1. Village settlement Goukou is part of the Goukou AdministrativeVillage 沟口行政村. Currently, the village has a population of 1300 people.The main livelihood is agriculture. Each year three Fushou 福首 are selectedin rotation to manage ritual activities.2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Su 苏, Lin 林,and the Xu 许. There are also Huang 黄, Wu 吴, and Yu 俞 minor surnamegroups in the village.3. Village temples 1) Honglinshê 洪林社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃.Secondary gods: Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dashi大使, and Ershi 二使.2) Julanting 聚兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.3) Hushanci 壶山祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary god is Master Wu 吴先生.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 –16, the Su 苏, Lin 林 and Xu 许take turns taking Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Dashi 大使, Ershi 二使,Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutianyuanshuai 都天元帅 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 on a processionaround their own territories. On 1/15, at night, there is a fire walkingceremony in which palm sedan chairs with small versions of the gods areraced across a pile of glowing charcoal and burning logs and straw, and lanterns are lit. On 1/16 at night, three Daoist ritual masters and one drummerare invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/16–4/16: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. A procession is made to Xiangshangong 香山宫 to carry the goddessback to the village to watch the opera.6/19:The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionetteplays are performed.8/15:The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 andHoutu furen 后土夫人 is held8/23:The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.9/16:The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wushixiansheng 吴氏先生 is organized by the Mingdetang 明德堂.Marionette plays are performed.On the larger ritual occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held.
