V028 Houliao 后廖1. Village settlement Houliao village is part of the Zhengban AdministrativeVillage 郑阪行政村. The village has a population of approximately 1000 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Liao 廖 and the Qiu邱. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈. The Liao claimto be the descendants of the Qing imperial censor Liao Biqi 廖必琦.3. Village temples 1) Zhaokang zushê 赵坑祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods areTiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, and Kongfudaren 孔府大人.2) Fuxingsi 福星寺 was originally known as the Guishansi 龟山祖寺. Themonastery is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼 and preserves an inscription from 1945.3) Jinhuagong 金华宫 belongs to the Liao 廖, and is dedicated to Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃,Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王.4) Juyingtang 聚应堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.5) Houliaosi 后廖寺 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:221).4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Liao 廖 take the incenseburner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao. On 1/15 the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 take the incenseburner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao.Birthday celebrations of the gods2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by theChen 陈.3/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole.3/28: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is organized by the 陈.The celebration of Cigan xianfe 慈感仙妃 is organized by the Qiu 邱.The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the village as a whole.9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by theQiu 邱.10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is organized by the villageas a whole.On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters maybe invited to conduct rites. Funding is raised on a per capita basis by theorganizing group, whether it be the village as a whole, or a particular lineagegroup.4/12:6/19:
