V037 Yangwei 洋尾1. Village settlement Yangwei village is part of the Xidong AdministrativeVillage 溪东行政村. Yangwei has approximately 2000 people.2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. There arealso Chen 陈, Lin 林 and other surnames in the village. The Yangmei citang杨美祠堂 (ancestral hall) is jointly worshipped in by eighteen differentsurnames.Yangwei is divided into two neighborhoods called Houcuo 后厝 and Weicuo尾厝. Each year each neighborhood selects nine Fushou 福首 by rotation.3. Village temples 1) Gonglin dongshê 拱林东社, Qinghuyuan 清壶院was built in Qianlong 18 (1753). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondarygods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Mayangzungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑,Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统, Qiu dutong 邱都统, Liu dutong刘都统, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神.2) Tianshangong 天山宫 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.3) Mingxintang 明馨堂 and Liaokexuan 聊可轩 is in Houcuo 后厝 and isdedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军,Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人and Jinfu daren 金府大人.4) Qinghuci 清壶祠 is in Weicuo 尾厝. This temple has over eighty initiates门人. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary godsinclude Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren卓真人.5) Mingsantang 明三堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 800 initiates are claimed in SJCDCB, 1992:17.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Weicuo 尾厝 takes thegods of Gonglin dongshê 拱林东社 and Qinghuyuan 清壶院 on a procession around the village. On 1/14–15 Houcuo 后厝 takes the gods of Gonglindongshê 拱林东社 and Qinghuyuan 清壶院 on a procession around thevillage. On 2/2, the celebration of Toufu 头福, divination blocks are cast todetermine the day on which the gods of Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社 will betaken on a procession through the three-fold village ritual alliance. Opera isperformed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/16: The birthday celebration of Jinfu daren 金府大人.5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Marionetteplays are performed.6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士.7/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人.8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.9/9: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.11/22: The birthday celebration of Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统.In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination the birthdaycelebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 ofGonglin zushê 拱林祖社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the threefold village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.11/22: The birthday celebration of Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统.On most of these occasions opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rituals. These events are organized primarily by the villageas a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
