V038 Xidong 溪东1. Village settlement Xidong village is part of the Xidong AdministrativeVillage 溪东行政村. The entire village has approximately 800 people. Themain livelihood is agriculture.2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Dai 戴, the Zhang 张, andthe Chen 陈.3. Village temples 1) Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社 is shared by Jingdun 锦墩,Xidong 溪东, and Dongba 东坝. The temple has been recently reconstructed.The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人.Secondary gods include Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士.2) Yulinjing Yinghuyuan 玉林境瑛壶院, Gonglin qianshê 拱林前社, Gonglin houshê 拱林后社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Ciganxianfei 慈感仙妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅,Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guanyin dashi观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Jintong 金童, and Yunü 玉女.3) Yuxici 玉溪祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4) Yuquansi 玉泉寺 was built in the Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:221)4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burner of the shêaltar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practicethe Dao. There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/16 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held and Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 is taken on a processionthrough the village. In the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 are carried in a procession through this village and throughthe villages of Jindun 锦墩, Yangwei 洋尾 and Dongba 东坝.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera isperformed for three days.4/12: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Opera is performed.7/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人.11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters may beinvited to conduct rites. The village organizes these events as a whole, andfunds are raised on a per capita basis.
