V043 Buyun 步云1. Village settlement Buyun natural village is managed by the BuyunAdministrative Village 步云行政村. The village is divided into the twoneighborhoods of Dingdonglu 顶东路 and Xiadonglu 下东路, each withtheir own shê altars (see below). The population of Buyun village is approximately 1300 people. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation toorganize the ritual activities of the year.2. Surname groups There are six surname groups. The main surnamegroups are the Fang 方 and the Lin 林. There are also the following minorsurname groups: the Wu 吴, Peng 彭 and Chen 陈.3. Village temples 1) Buyun gong 步云宫, Buyun shushê 步云书社: Themain god is Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. Secondary gods include Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君,Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷.2) Yingxing dongshê 应兴东社: The main god are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Daxiong 大兄.3) Ruiyuntang 瑞云堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondarygods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Chenshengfaye 陈胜法爷, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession to each household toxingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 a lantern procession is held aroundthe village boundaries. On 2/1 Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 goes on processionaround the village. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes these events and fundsare collected on a per capita basis.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera isperformed.6/24: The birthday celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Opera is performed.6/29: The birthday celebration of Chensheng faye 陈胜法爷. Opera isperformed.8/15: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera isperformed.10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rites.11/27: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.On all these occasions, the village as a whole organizes the event and fundsare collected on a per capita basis.
