V059 Houting 后亭1. Village settlement Houting is part of the Xindu Administrative Village新度行政村. Houting has approximately 1500 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cai 蔡 and theChen 陈. There are also Weng 翁 and Xu 徐 minor surname groups.3. Village temples 1) Yongtanshê 涌坛社 includes three shê-altars, namelythe Yongtan zushê 涌坛祖社, Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 and Yongtanzhongshê 涌坛中社. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人(three statues of each). The secondarygods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qianshi xianfei 钱氏仙妃.2) Xindujing Zixinggong 新度境紫星宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi杨公太师. Secondary gods: Yangfu bajiang 杨府八将.3) Guilinsi 桂林寺 is dedicated to Zhunti wenfo 准提文佛.4) Xinglongting 兴隆亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondarygods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝.5) Pumingtang 普明堂 belongs to the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and the Xu徐. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantanyuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufuyima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人 and Linzhenming 林贞明.6) Baoxingan 宝兴庵 was built in the Ming. (PTZJZCG, 1992:221)7) Puzhaoan 普照庵 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908).(PTZJZCG, 1992:221)8) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:16 lists 360 initiates.9) Tongxingci 桐星祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:17 lists 101 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 andthe Xu 徐 take the incense burners of the Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 on aprocession around the village. On 1/15 the Cai 蔡 and the Chen 陈 take theincense burners of the Yongtan zushê 涌坛祖社 on a procession around thevillage. During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination,Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession to every village in thenine-fold alliance of Xindu 新度九社.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organizedby the village as a whole. Opera is performed.5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held with marionette plays, and is organized by the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and theXu 徐.5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organizedby the village as a whole. Opera is performed.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays, and is organized by the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and theXu 徐.8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed.10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera isperformed.
