V061 Dongdian 东店1. Village settlement Dongdian is part of the Xindu Administrative Village新度行政村. Dongdian has a population of approximately 1000 people.2. Surname groups Surnames include the Fang 方, Zhou 周, Lin 林, Wu 吴,Chen 陈 and Tang 汤.3. Village temples 1) Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社 was built in Qianlongbingwu (1786) and rebuilt in 1944. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.2) Wanfutang 万福堂 is dedicated to Chenfu daren 陈府大人. Secondarygods: Zhu daifu 煮大夫, Shen daifu 沈大夫, Zhou daifu 周大夫 Zheng daifu郑大夫.3) Ruiyundian 瑞云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Chenshizhenren 陈氏真人, and Baifu daren 白府大人.4) Shunrentang 顺仁堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 and Cuifuyima 崔府姨妈.5) Kaishundian 开顺殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.6) Xinglongting 兴隆亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.7) Tongmingtang 桐明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:16 claims 254 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君 of the Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社are taken on a procession around the village boundaries by the Fang 方, Zhou 周, Lin 林, andWu 吴 households. During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined bydivination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession to every village in the alliance.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held withopera, and is organized by the Ruiyundian 瑞云殿.4/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held with opera performances organized by theYongtan wenshê 涌坛文社.4/18: The celebration of Huang erdaxiong 黄二大兄 is held with operasorganized by Wanfutang 万福堂.7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with operasorganized by the Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社.8/18: The celebration of Chenfu daren 陈府大人 is held with operas organized by the Wanfutang 万福堂.
