V065 Houzheng 后郑1. Village settlement Houzheng is part of the Puban AdministrativeVillage 蒲阪行政村. The population of Houzheng is approximately 1000people. The village is mentioned in a stone inscription composed in Jiajing 5(1526) by Zheng Yue 郑岳 entitled 蒲坂兴造碑 (Record of the Constructionof (a bridge and a temple) at Puban) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:152, No.130) describing the digging of an irrigation canal to the village.2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. There isa Zheng Ancestral hall. They preserve a stele composed in Jiajing 5 (1526)by Lin Jun 林俊 entitled 蒲坂郑祠增建记 (Record of the expansion of theZheng ancestral hall of Puban) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:154, No. 132).3. Village temples 1) Guananshê 灌安社, Longxingtang 隆兴堂, Yuyinggong 育英宫is the main shê altar for the Puban 蒲阪 ritual alliance. The temple includes the Zhongshê 中社, Nanshê 南社, Beishê 北社, and Dongshê东社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Jialuo dadi 伽罗大帝, Ziwei xingjun 紫微星君), Jingbian dutong 静边都统 (these are a Zheng father and his two sons 郑氏一父二子), Wenchangdijun 文昌帝君, and Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃.2) Qinglingdian 青凌殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Dongyue dadi 东岳大帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Huanghengdadi 黄横大帝, Zhang gong dadi 张公大帝, and the Bajiang 八将 (Wen 温,Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao 赵, Feng 风, Yu 雨, Lei 雷, and Dian 电).3) Qixingmiao 七星庙 is owned by the sevenfold ritual alliance of Puban,and every twelve years its gods are taken on a procession throughout thealliance. The temple is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Mao Zhongjun 毛中军.4) Qixingdong 七星洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄.5) Chongbaoci 崇报祠 was built to commemorate Zheng Yue 郑岳.6) Xingxiatang 行夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:16 claims 725 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incenseburners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice theDao.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝 is held. Opera is performed five times over three days.3/8: The celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is held. Marionette opera is performed.In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebrationof Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held.5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performedfive times over three days.7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held.
