V075 Houxiang 后巷1. Village settlement Houxiang is part of the Xiaban AdministrativeVillage 下阪行政村. Houxiang village has a population of 1000 people. Thevillage is divided into two neighborhoods, called Zhoushê 周社 and Chenshê陈社. Two fushou 福首 are selected by each neighborhood in rotation.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhou 周 and theChen 陈. Other surnames include the Yu 余 and the Zheng 郑.3. Village temples 1) Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 belongs to the Chen 陈. Themain gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 andTiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈,Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.2) Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社 belongs to the Zhou 周. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Fudezhengshen 福德正神.3) Zongbentang 宗本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondarygods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Taiyixiangu 太乙仙姑.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhou 周 take the incenseburner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Chen 陈 take the incense burner of the shêaltar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao.On 1/14 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. This is organizedby the Chen 陈. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritualmaster are invited to conduct rituals.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/27: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by thevillage as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a percapita basis.4/4: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by theChen 陈 Opera is performed.7/16: the celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the villageas a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capitabasis.10/7: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社is organized by the Zhou周. Opera is performed.10/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of the Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社is organized by the Chen 陈.Opera is performed.
