V077 Shanping 山坪1. Village settlement Shanping is part of the Xiaban AdministrativeVillage 下阪行政村. Shanping village currently has a population of over 650people. The village is divided into three neighborhood ritual associations onthe basis of lineage. They are the Hongshê 洪社, the Zhengshê 郑社 and theZashê (mixed surname neighborhood) 杂社. Two fushou 福首 are selectedfrom each shê each year.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Hong 洪 and theZheng 郑. Other minor surnames include the Chen 陈, Lin 林, Weng 翁,and the Wu 吴.3. Village temples 1) Jiyishê 积义社 belongs to the Hong 洪 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.2) Changyishê 长义社 belongs to the Zheng 郑 and is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods includeTiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugongyuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Di diye 狄帝爷.3) Xianyishê 显义社 belongs to the mixed lineages 杂姓 and is dedicated toZunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.4) Wanyitang 万益堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufufuren 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.5) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母. Secondary gods: Jiqing hou 积庆侯, Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳.6) Wanyitang 万益堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Thesecondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufufuren 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.7) Tongmingdong 通明洞 is dedicated to Dage 大哥.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Zheng 郑 take the incenseburner of their shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao. On 1/11 the Hong 洪 take the incense burner of their shêaltar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao.On 1/12, the miscellaneous surname groups 杂姓 take the incense burnerof their shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritualmaster are invited to conduct rituals.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by thevillage as a whole. Opera is performed and funds are raised on a percapita basis.7/9: The celebration of Dage 大哥. Marionette plays are performed.8/15: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by thevillage as a whole. Opera is performed and funds are raised on a percapita basis.10/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of the Changyishê 长义社is organized by the Zheng 郑.Opera is performed.10/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of the Jiyishê 积义社is organized by the Hong 洪. Opera isperformed.10/4: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of the Xianyishê 显义社is organized by the miscellaneoussurnames 杂姓. Opera is performed.
