V079 Shanxiang sijia (The four jia ritual alliance of Shanxiang) 善乡四甲Shanxiang)1. Village settlement The four jia ritual alliance of Shanxiang is locatedalongside the Shangxiaqu main channel of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. This area was part of the Shanxiangpu 善乡舖 (police/defense unit)of Nanlili 南力里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages ofQianzhang 前张 and Gaocen 高涔. In the Qing the village of Xiawen 下问divided off. Nowadays all the natural villages have merged into a continuousmass, all administered by the Shanxiang Administrative Village 善乡行政村.The current overall population is over 3000. The local temple ritual systemis divided into the four jia of Qianzhang 前张, Xiazhang 下张, Xibian 溪边,and Goutou 沟头. There are around twenty Christian families in Shanxing.2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 makes up 80% of the population. Othersurnames include the Zhang 张 and the Kang 康. It is said that the ancestorsof the Zheng emigrated from Xiaban 下坂 in Huangshi 黄石 There currently exists a Zheng ancestral hall which is used for the Laorenhui (elderlyassociation) 老人会 of the village. In the Ming dynasty the Zheng lineageproduced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and five Juren 举人(Provincial Graduates), and so they were the pre-eminent local lineage. Inthe feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Shanxingfour jia ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance.3. Village temples 1) Mingshangong 名山宫 (described above) is themain temple for the four jia associations of Shanxiang. It is also the mainoverall temple of the Lingyun Upper Eighteen village ritual alliance 凌云上十八乡总宫 (see the discussion of the Nanyang irrigation system above).Two stelae are preserved in the temple, the Guangxu 30 (1904) 重修名山神应庙碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Divine Response Templeof Mingshan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:355, No. 319) and the Xuantong3 (1911) 名山神应庙前栏杆碑誌 (Inscribed statement on the ballustradein the front of the Divine Response Temple of Mingshan) (EpigraphicalMaterials, 1995:359, No. 323)2) Shanxianjing Xinanshê 善乡境溪南社 belongs to Qianzhang 前张 andXibian 溪边, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Huoguang dadi 火官大帝, Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君, Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公(鲁部大神), Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Nan jiangjun 男将军, and Nü jiangjun 女将军.3) Zhengfushê 正福社 (Qianzhang lishê 前张里社), belongs to Xiazhang 下张and Goutou 沟头. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人.4) Shanqingtang 善庆堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. Secondarygods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝.5) Qiongyutang 琼玉堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondarygods are Li xianshi 李先师 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅.6) Shihudian 石湖殿 (Zhanggongdong 张公洞) is dedicated to Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君. The secondary god is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝.7) Enguangting 恩光亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and thesecondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰.8) Shanxiantang 善现堂 was built in Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ,1992:220)4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9 villagers takes the gods ofthe Xinanshê 溪南社 on a procession. On 1/15 the gods of the Zhengfushê正福社 are taken on procession. On 1/26–28, during the final evenings ofthe Yuanxiao festival 末晚元宵, the gods of the Mingshan gong 名山宫 aretaken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed for two days.Five Three in One scripture masters 经师 and one drummer are invited forone afternoon of rites. The men of the village are divided into ten groups,each having fifty-six people. Four directors are selected each year to organizethe ritual activities.Birthday celebrations of the gods2/3: The celebration of Huoguang dadi 火官大帝 is held as part of the finalevening festivities of Yuanxiao 尾晚元宵. Two days of opera are performed.2/16:7/16:7/23:8/8–9:8/12:8/16:8/23:9/12:11/25:
