V087 Yangcheng qijing (Yangchen sevenfold ritual alliance) 洋埕七境Yangcheng 洋埕 )Yangcheng 洋埕 is also written as 洋城. The village is located along the mainchannel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate洋城斗门. This area was part of the Yangchengpu 洋城铺 (police/defenseunit) of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton 洋城铺. This area already had a villageforming in the Southern Song. Currently Yangcheng is divided into ten largeneighborhoods: Zhongjing 中境 (Qiangou 前沟), Hougou 后沟, Jindong 金东(Xichun 熙春), Xicuotou 西厝头 (Quchi 曲尺), Louxia 楼下, Zhongxian 忠献(Zhongjun 中浚), Shengdong 升东, Dinggou 顶沟. Xiagou 下沟, Menqian门前. The overall population of Yangcheng is 4366 people. However the ritual system is primarily based on different lineages and so has been dividedinto seven ritual associations 七境. The main livelihood is agriculture.2. Surname groups The five earliest surnames in this area were the Lin林, the Zheng 郑, the Wang 王, the Yang 杨 and the Huang 黄. Later the,Xie 谢, Zeng 曾, Dai 戴, Xu 许 and Zhou 周 surname groups also movedinto the area. In the Ming, Yangcheng was a famous region for the production of examination graduates. The five lineages who settled earliest (seeabove) between them produced nine Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates)and thirty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441)the Fujian Provincial Commissioner 福建布政使 set up a Zhouxiu 昼繍牌坊 memorial archway for the Lin lineage 林. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460)the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archwayfor the Yang lineage 杨. In Ming Chenghua 4 (1468) Censor-in-Chief ZhangXuan 都御史张瑄 set up a Shike 世科牌坊 (generations of successful examination graduates) archway for the Lin lineage 林 and the Prefect Yue Zheng知府岳正 set up a Jingjie 旌节牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhenglineage 郑. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495) the Censor Wang Zhe 御史王哲 setup a Conggui 丛桂牌坊 memorial archway for the Yang lineage 杨. In MingHongzhi 10 (1497), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up an Yiguang 依光牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄.Currently, the Lin 林 surname makes up some 60% of the overall population. They are divided into three main lines: the Quexia Lin 阙下林, theJiumu Lin 九牧林 and the Changcheng Lin 长城林 and they have preserveda Lin lineage ancestral hall 林氏祠堂and a Lin genealogy 林氏族谱. Thereis also a Yang 杨 ancestral hall. The text of a stone inscription composedin Chenghua period (1465–1487) by Zheng Ji 郑纪 entitled 杨氏祠堂记(Record of the Yang Ancestral hall) describes this hall (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:115, No. 102).In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Yangcheng sevenfoldritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance.3. Village temples 1) Yangchengjing Tongyingmiao 洋埕境通应庙 andits Guilinshê 桂林社 in Zhongjing 中境 is the main temple of the wholevillage. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Yuhuang dadi玉皇大帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhutiandadi 注天大帝. This temple is said to have been originally built in the Songdynasty and rebuilt in Yongzheng 5 (1727) and Jiaqing 8 (1802).2) Wudanggong 武当宫 is located in Jindong 金东. It is said that this templeis older than the Beichengong 北辰宫 in Huangshi. Originally built in YuanZhizheng 25 (1365), the temple was rebuilt during the Ming Hongzhi period(1488–1505) and renovated in Qianlong 18 (1753). The temple is dedicatedto Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 in his martial Wu 武 manifestation.3) Huilongtang 会龙堂 is located in Jindong 金东 and is dedicated toZhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.4) Longxingtang 龙兴堂 is dedicated to Wutan liejun 五坛列君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.5) Yunshuitang 云水堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB,1992:16 claims 286 initiates.6) Dongansi 东安寺: The original site was destroyed by flood and it has notbeen rebuilt yet. The monks currently live at Guanghuasi 广化寺.7) Jinshu fayuan 金枢法院 is next door to the Wudanggong 武当宫, anddedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods are Honggong yuanshuai 鸿公元帅 and Yufu zhongjun 玉府中军.8) Xichun dongshê 熙春东社 is next to Wudanggong 武当宫, and belongsto the Xie 谢. The main gods are Zunshu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.9) Jinpingshê 锦屏社 is in Xicuotou 西厝头 and belongs to the Jiumu Lin九牧林 and the Wang 王 and the Huang 黄. Main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Ertai shenghou 二太圣侯.10) Huixiandong 会仙洞 is in Jindong 金东 and is dedicated to Huaxiangu花仙姑.11) Miaoshantang 妙善堂 is in Jindong 金东 and is dedicated to Guanyindashi 观音大士.12) Longyingtang 龙应堂 is in Zhongjing 中境 and belongs to the Lin ofQuexia 阙下林. The temple is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈.13) Jixingdong 集兴洞 is in Zhongjing 中境 and belongs to the Lin 林, theWang 王, and the Yang 杨 of Quexia 阙下. The main god is Daxiong 大兄,secondary gods are Erxiong 二兄, Sanxiong 三兄.14) Longdetan 隆德坛 in Hougou 后沟 belongs to the Lin of Quexia 阙下林.The main god is Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qinglou furen 青楼夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuoertong 风火儿童, Fude zhengshen 福德正神.15) Runxintang 润心堂 is in Hougou 后沟 is dedicated to Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jialuodasheng 伽罗大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, andLongshu zushi 龙树祖师.16) Qimingtang 齐明堂 is in Hougou 后沟 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xietian dadi 协天大帝,Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 villagers go on a procession to Hugongshan Lingyundian 壶公山凌云殿 to request the incensefire of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. This is organizedby Tongyingmiao. On 1/9–10 the Quexia Lin of Louxia 楼下阙下林 takeZunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅神 on a procession around the village. On 1/10–11 the Quexia Lin ofZhongjing 中境阙下林 take Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a processionaround the village. On 1/12 the Wang of Xicuotou 西厝头王 take Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 on a procession around the village. On1/13 the Huang of Xicuotou 西厝头黄 take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around the village. On 1/14 the Jiumu Lin of Xicuotou 西厝头 九牧林take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母 on a procession. On 1/15–16 the Quexia Lin of Hougu后沟阙下林 take the incense burner 社炉 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and then on a procession around the village. On 1/20 the Xie of Jindong 金东谢 take Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Honggong yuanshuai鸿公元帅 on a procession around the village. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao总元宵 is held. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to go on processionaround the entire village.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is organized byWudangdong 武当宫.4/5: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 熙春东社尊主明王 andHoutu furen 后土夫人of Xichun dongshê is organized by the Xie 谢.4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by theWang 王. Opera is performed for three days.5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by the Jinshu fayuan 金枢法院.6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by Longdetan 隆德坛.7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Wudanggong武当宫.7/16: The celebration of 三一教主 is organized by Qimingtang 齐明堂.Marionette plays are performed.7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized byHuangjing 黄境.9/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Guilinshê 桂林社 is organized by the Quexia Lin阙下林.10/2: The celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is organized by the Zhongjing Lin中境林.11/16: The celebration of Kong daren 孔大人 is organized by the ZhongjingWang 中境王 and Yang 杨.On these occasions, opera is performed for two days (unless otherwise specified), and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.
