V100 Dingzhuang 定庄1. Village settlement Dingzhuang was originally called Zhengzhuang郑庄. Dingzhuang is part of the Dingzhuang Administrative Village 定庄行政村. The entire village has approximately 2000 people. It is subdividedinto four shê: the Linshê 林社, Wushê 吴社, Zhangshê 张社, and Songshê宋社.2. Surname groups The Lin 林 make up 80% of the village population,the Wu 吴 make up 10%, and the Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, Zhou 周, Chen 陈,and Song 宋 together make up the remaining 10%. The Lin are the JiumuLin 九牧林. There currently exists a Guoqing Lin ancestral hall 国清林氏宗祠. The Wu came from Longdu 龙渡 (originally part of Shuinan qianpo水南钱坡) of Huangshi, and are the descendants of Wu Ying 吴英, theProvincial Commander of the Naval Forces 水师提 under Emperor Kangxi(1662–1722). There currently exists a Wuying Shrine 吴英祠堂 in the village.The ancestral hall of the Wu is near the Chongxingsi 重兴寺, on Huangshishujie 黄石书街.3. Village temples 1) Dingzhuangjing Fengshangong 定庄境凤山宫,originally built during the Ming Dynasty, was expanded during the MingChongzhen period (1628–1644). The Tanyue master 坛越主, or templepatron, was one Lin Yizhu 林一柱 of Dingzhuang village. The temple wasdestroyed in 1966 and rebuilt on the original site in 1983. The project wasfinished in 1992. The main hall is called the Taishifu 太师府, and is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods to the right: Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, and on the side altars: Badajiang 八大将 (Left: Li 李,Xiao 肖, Bai 白, Zhang 张. Right: Liu 刘, Lin 林, Fan 范, Zhao 赵). The RearHall is dedicated to Yanggong taishi’s father 圣父 and mother 圣母 (YangJiye 杨继业, She Taijun 佘太君). Left altar: Yangfu zhuxiongdi 杨府诸兄弟.Right altar: Yangfu jiuniangma 杨府九娘妈, Yangfu zhujiangjun 杨府诸将军 (Badajiang 八大将).2) Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 was rebuilt in 1993 and is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神.3) Jinli zushê 锦里祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 andHoutu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar:Fude zhengshen 福德正神.4) Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.5) Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社 was rebuilt in 2004, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.6) Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社 was rebuilt in 1982 and is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wushi taiwangong 吴氏台湾公. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神.7) Jinlanting 今兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar:Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right altar: Guangong Yuanshuai 关公元帅.8) Donglongmiao 东龙庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.9) Linshuigong 临水宫 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人.10) Fulongtang 福隆堂 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄.11) Baoen guangde si 报恩广德寺 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.There is an extant Jiaqing 12 (1807) donation stele 捐碑.12) Fengshan chansi 凤山禅寺 was rebuilt in 1984. The Daxiong baodian大雄宝殿 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left altar: Weituo 韦驮.Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11, the Zhang 张 and theZhu 朱 invite the gods of Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession isheld around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in thetemple. On 1/12–13, the Lin 林 invites the gods of Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening alantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual mastersconduct rites in the temple. Four fushou 福首 from Linshê 林社 “circle thelanterns 圈灯” (lead the lanterns in a procession in a circle around the villageboundaries) while holding the incense burners of the shê-altar. In the past,four Daoist ritual masters 法师 and three Buddhist monks 和尚 were invitedto conduct rituals. Nowadays, five Daoist ritual masters accompanied by adrummer conduct the rituals. On 1/14, the Song 宋 invite the gods of Jinlizushê to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the eveninga lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual mastersconduct rites inside the temple. On 1/15, the entire village invites the godsof Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out theDao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory whileDaoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. That day, the gods goon procession around the village territory. On 1/16, the Wu 吴 invites thegods of Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社 to visit each household to xingdao (carryout the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territorywhile Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a percapita basis.The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Theseevents are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds arecollected on a per capita basis.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. These eventsare organized by Fengshan gong 凤山宫, and a procession aroundthe five sha 五沙 as well as all the villages of Shadi 沙堤 on a selectedlucky day.5/25: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. Theseevents are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds arecollected on a per capita basis.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. These eventsare organized by both Jinlan ting 今兰亭 and Baoen guangdesi 报恩广德寺, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions.7/1: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 (Linshuifuren 临水夫人). These events are organized by the Zhang 张 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社. These events are organized by the Wu 吴 surname group, and funds are collected on a percapita basis.10/29: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 (Rites of Universal Deliverance) are held.These events are organized by Baoen guangdesi, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.11/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社. These events areorganized by the Zhang 张 surname group, and funds are collectedon a per capita basis.11/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Jinli zushê 锦里祖社. These events are organizedby the Song 宋 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.Every year, from the 11th to the 17th of the 4th and the 8th lunar months,Taishiye 太师爷 goes on procession.3/6:
