V102 Xiaban 下阪1. Village settlement Xiaban is part of the Fengshan AdministrativeVillage 凤山行政村. Xiaban village has approximately 1300 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhang 张 and theChen 陈. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation to organizethe annual rituals: two from the Zhang and two from Chen There are 213Zhang 张 households, 70 Chen 陈 households, and 20 Wu households, summing up to 303 households in total. The Zhang of Xiaban emigrated fromShadi village 沙堤村 of Huangshi 黄石 in Ming Hongwu 15 (1382). Therewas a genealogy in the past. There is currently the original site of the Zhangancestral hall 张氏宗祠.3. Village temples 1) Hushanjing Xingbaoshê 壶山境兴保社: Middlehall: Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left hall 左殿: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right hall: Wulu jiangjun五路将军.2) Xingxianshê 兴贤社, Lufu 鲁府: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu laoye 土主老爷. Right altar:Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Lufu xiangshou 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人,Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Front: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军.3) Jinmingci 金明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Right altar: Xietian dadi协天大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.4) Jindetang 金德堂: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar:Weituo 韦驮. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝.5) Yongxing Buddhist temple 永兴寺 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221)6) Shanjitang Buddhist hall 善继堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221)7) Shanan Buddhist temple 善安寺 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:221)4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/24, the Zhang 张 take Yanggongtaishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê 兴保社to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening alantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual mastersconduct rites in the temple. On 1/25, the Chen 陈 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê to visit each of theirhouseholds and to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lanternprocession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conductrites in the temple. On these occasions, cookies are distributed to families分丁饼.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.4/7: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited towatch opera. Opera is performed for two days. Villagers participate inthe procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫.The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collectedon a per capita basis.7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizesthe ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.8/7:
