V103 The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire villageorganizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis.Tiancuo 田厝1. Village settlement Tiancuo is part of the Fengshan AdministrativeVillage 凤山行政村. Tiancuo village currently has 1200 people.2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zheng 郑. The Zhengof the village emigrated from Hankou 汉口 of Shadi 沙堤 during the QingTonggzhi period (1862–1874). There currently exists a Zhengshi jiaozhongancestral hall 郑氏教忠祠堂.3. Village temples 1) Shenglong shushê 升龙书社: Originally called Deyidongshê 德义东社, it was built in 1944. There is an extant stele entitledBenxiang lizao sheyu gongjin 本乡立造社宇公禁. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.2) Kaiquan shuyuan 开泉书院: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.Left altar: Kuidong xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the gods of Shenglongsheshu are invited to go to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao),and a lantern procession is held around the village territory. Opera is performed for two days and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.4/11: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watchopera. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritualtogether, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera isperformed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.9/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire villageorganizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis.
