V104 Shangyuanqian 上院前1. Village settlement Shangyuanqian is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. The village currently has 408 people.2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhang 张. The ancestorsof the Zhang of the village were originally long-term workers (Changgong长工). They came here during the late Qing Dynasty to watch over the tombof their patron 财主. Later on, they settled down to start their own clan.3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙, Anningshê 安宁社: Middlealtar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Simashengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.2) Xianying zumiao 显应祖庙: Middle altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神.3) Xianyingting 显应亭: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士.4) Xianyingtang 显应堂: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Xianyingmiao显应庙 and Anningshê 安宁社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held aroundthe village boundaries while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in thetemple.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong凤山宫.7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera isperformed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire villageorganizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis.
