V129 Qingqian 清前1. Village settlement Qingqian is managed by the Qingqian AdministrativeVillage 清前行政村. The village has approximately 4000 people, andincludes four natural villages: Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Houdu 后度, andXiaoqiaotou 小桥头. Each village has approximately 1000 people.2. Surname groups In the village, the Lin 林 and the Weng 翁 are themajority. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Xu 徐, and Huang 黄. TheWeng have the same ancestors as do the Weng living in Qingzhong 清中.The Lin have approximately 1500 people. It is said that their ancestors beggedtheir way to Putian from Henan province 河南 and Anhui province 安徽.Their ancestral tombs are in the Lingnanpu 岭南浦 of Huian 惠安. Eachyear, representatives are sent to Hui’an to commemorate their ancestors. TheLin of the village are divided into four big branches: Dongfang 东房, Xifang西房, Houcuofang 后厝房, and Chaomi huafang 炒米花房, of which theDongfang branch has the most people, with approximately 300. There currently exists an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy.3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Zhongyougong 清江境忠佑宫 is themain temple of the village and was rebuilt in Daoguang 17 (1837) and again in1986. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 (Aotouma 鳌头妈).Front left: Xiao jiangjun 肖将军, Sanye 三爷. Right altar: Li jiangjun 李将军,Siye 四爷.2) Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is located in Houdu 后度. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人.3) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is subdivided into Dongshê 东社, Xishê西社, and Zhongshê 中社. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人.4) Zongaotang 宗鳌堂 was built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–1566).Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君,Guanyin dashi 观音大士.5) Puzhaosi 普照寺 was originally called Xiaoqiaoan 小桥庵, and was builtin the Yuan Dynasty by Zhou Xinjian 周心鑑. The Buddhist monastery wasrebuilt as the Puzhaosi in Ming Tianqi 5 (1625) by Zhou Rupan 周如磐.There currently exists a stele dated Qianlong 31 (1766) called Chongxiupuzhaoqiao beiji 重修普照桥碑记. The front hall is dedicated to Yanggongtaishi 杨公太师. The back hall is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦文佛. Sidealtars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, The Xu 徐 of Dongshê东社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggongtaishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Dongzhi东至. Opera is performed. One Three in One Scripture Master is invited.Each year, four people take turns, rotating according to age, to become hosts福首 (Fushou). On 1/16, the Wu 吴 of Zushê 祖社 invite Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma鳌头妈 to go on procession within Houdu 后度. One scripture master经师 is invited. On 1/17–18, the Lin 林 of Zhongshê 中社 invite Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师,and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Dongzhi and Xizhi 西至. Opera is performed. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited.Each year, five people are selected to be the host of the ritual. On 1/18, theWeng 翁 of Xishê 西社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Xiaoqiaotou 小桥头. Opera is performed. One Three in Onescripture master 经师 is invited. Each year, five people are selected to be theFushou.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Zongaotang宗鳌堂.3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera isperformed for two days. These events are organized by the three shêalliance. Every ten years, the god is taken on a procession around thethree villages of Qingjiang 清江.4/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xishê 西社. Opera is performed for two days.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongshê 中社. Operais performed for two days.5/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed for two days.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Zongaotang宗鳌堂.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Zongaotang宗鳌堂.8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社. Opera is performed fortwo days. These events are organized by the three-fold shê.11th lunar month: on a day determined by divination, 下元普度 Xiayuanpudu rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted byThree in One Scripture masters 经师 in groups of nine, and a Ritual Spaceof the Dao (daochang) 道场 is set up. Marionette plays of Mulian opera目莲戏 are performed for two days.
