V130 Xihong liushê (Xihong six shê ritual alliance) 西洪六社Xihong 西洪)1. Village settlement Xihong is a natural village as well as an administrative village. Xihong is stretched out along the main channel of the Mulanirrigation in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This was partof the Xihongpu 西洪铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. Xihong wasalready a large village in the Ming dynasty. Currently Xihong has over 6000people, and is divided into three neighborhoods: Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至and Zhonggu 中谷, all of which are managed by the Xihong AdministrativeVillage 西洪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according tolineage into six shê ritual associations. The six shê of the ritual alliance ofXihong were all part of the black banner alliance at the end of the Qing.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 许, Li 李, andChen 陈. There are also the smaller surnames of Guo 郭, Lin 林, Xie 谢. 1200villagers are surnamed Xu 许 and live in Dongzhi 东至, 2000 are surnamedLi 李 and live in Dongzhi 东至 and Zhonggu 中谷, 1200 are surnamedChen 陈 and live in Zhonggu 中谷 and Xizhi 西至, 600 are surnamed Guo郭 and live in Dongzhi 东至, 380 are surnamed Lin 林 and live in Zhonggu中谷, approximately 200 are surnamed Xie 谢 and live in Zhonggu 中谷.The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾 and there currently exists an ancestralhall and a lineage genealogy. The Chen 陈 emigrated from Kuokou 阔口 ofPutian 莆田 and are divided into two branches: Houzhi 后至 and Zhongjian中间. The Houzhi branch has approximately 800 people while the Zhongjianbranch has approximately 400 people. The Xu emigrated from Jiewai 界外and are divided into two branches: Qianfang 前房 and Houcuo 后厝. Thereis an ancestral hall which is used as a school now. The Guo 郭 are dividedinto two branches: the head branch has more than 500 people while the second branch has approximately 100 people. There is an ancestral hall. The Xu许 emigrated from Yangcheng 洋埕, and has one branch and one ancestralhall. The Xie 谢 has no branches.3. Village temples 1) Yuxijing Yuxici 玉溪境玉溪祠: Located in Zhonggu中谷, this is the main temple for the six shê ritual alliance of Xihong. Itwas originally built during the Jiajing period (1522–66), and was rebuilt in1983. It is one of the four famous temples of Putian. The temple is dedicated to the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩). Secondary godsinclude Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Li Mingdeng 李明灯, Lu Wenhui 卢文辉.Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. Middle hall is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi玄天上帝. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Huiqing xianshi 惠庆先师, Wenyuanshuai 温元帅, Kangyuanshuai 康元帅, Mayuanshuai 马元帅,
