V132 Xiajiangtou 下江头1. Village settlement Xiajiangtou is managed by the Xiajiangtou Administrative Village 下江头行政村. Xiajiangtou village currently has more than2500 people,2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖 with 700people, the Wu 吴 with 600, the Yang 杨 with over 500, the Weng 翁 withover 300, and the Yao 姚 with over 200 people. Other surname include theChen 陈, Cheng 程, and the Lin 林. According to legend, the Xiao ancestorswere stone masons 石匠 who emigrated from Huian 惠安 at the time of theconstruction of the Ninghai bridge 宁海桥. The Xiao are divided into twobranches: Houzhi 后至 and Touqian 头前. There currently exists a commonancestral hall. The ancestral tombs are in the Hugong mountains 壶公山.The Wu are divided into five branches. They used to have an ancestral hall,but it has been transformed into residential houses. The Weng emigratedfrom Zhenqian 镇前 and they have lived in the village for five generations.The Weng are divided into two branches: Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝.Their ancestral hall is in Qingjiang 清江.3. Village temples 1) Xiajiangjing Baoshangong 霞江境宝山宫: Thistemple branched off from the Fushangong 福山宫; it was originally builtduring the Ming Jiajing period (1522–66) and rebuilt in Xianfeng 11 (1861).It was renovated in 1946 and in 1987. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Nezhataizi 哪吒太子, and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅.2) Wenshengshê 文盛社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人.3) Xiajiangjing Longxiantan 霞江境隆显坛 is the main temple of the village.Originally built in Qianlong 30 (1765), it was rebuilt twice: in Daoguang 22(1842), and in 1932. It was later renovated in 1986. Middle altar: Yanggongtaishi 杨公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. Front:Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军.4) Baozhou zumiao 宝洲祖庙 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 was rebuilt during the Republican period. Middle:Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yuantianshangdi 元天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Lixianshi 李先师,Kongdaren 孔大人, Wengwudao 翁吾道, Linzhenming 林真明, Wanglingguan 王灵官, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claimsthat there are 790 initiates.6) Xiajiangjing Huiyuntan 霞江境惠云坛 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Side altars: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, andFude zhengshen 福德正神.7) Zhengxingtan 正兴坛 is dedicated to Lufu Xianggong 鲁府相公, Sidealtars: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.8) Daxinting 达心亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.9) Zhichengtan 至诚坛 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.10) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the Xiao 肖 take the incenseburners of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Nezha taizi 哪吒太子of Baoshangong 宝山宫on a procession. People take turns to be the headhost according to their age. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 2/2,a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the Weng 翁, Wu 吴, Yang 杨,and the Yao 姚. Local Shentong 神童 spirit mediums strike themselves withan iron mace 打铁球. The selection of the Shentong 神童 spirit medium isarbitrary and spontaneous: those who beat the drum and chant spells andhave a god descend into them become shentong 神童 spirit mediums. Theseevents are organized by the board of directors of Longxian tang 隆显堂together with the person responsible for each surname group in each village.One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites.1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionetteoperas are performed.3/3: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites.3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites. These events are organized by the Yang 杨.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites These events are organized by the Chen 陈.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites.5/4–5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct ritesThese activities are co-organized by Huiyuntan 惠云坛 and Zhengxingtan 正兴坛.5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionetteplays are performed.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days.7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites These events are organized by the Yang 杨.8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites.10/15: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance of the Lower Primerites are conducted at the Mingxiatang 明夏堂. Marionette versionsof the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three Scripture mastersare invited.
