V136 Lindun 林墩1. Village settlement Lindun is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village桥兜行政村. Lindun village currently has more than 700 people.2. Surname groups The main surname is the Fang 方, making up 20%of the entire population. Other surnames include the Wang 王, Hong 洪,Cai 蔡, Chen 陈 and Huang 黄. It is said that the village was originallyoccupied by the Lin 林. However, when asked for a divine dream 仙梦, theLin dreamed that they were oppressed by the Fang. Thus the Lin moved toFuzhou 福州. The Fang are divided into four branches. There used to be anancestral hall, but it was destroyed.3. Village temples 1) Linpu shengjing Wenxinggong 林埔胜境文兴宫is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Side altars: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅.2) Changshoushê 长寿社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅,Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lizhangzhe 李长者.3) Gonghuan 拱壶庵 is dedicated to Miaodao Ciji zhenjun 妙道慈济真君.Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Magong shengjun 马公圣君,Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣.4) Guanyingge 观音阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars:Shancai 善才, Longnü 龙女, Milefo 弥勒佛.5) Zongkongci 宗孔祠, Nantang Qigongci 南塘戚公祠 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuozhenren 卓真人.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the Fang 方 and the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 each separately prepare offerings to pray for goodfortune at the Wenxinggong 文兴宫 and at the Changshoushê 长寿社. On1/16, the Wang 王 prepares offerings to worship at the Wenxinggong 文兴宫and the Changshoushê 长寿社. In the second half of the first lunar month,on a day determined by divination, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 ritual isheld for the entire village. Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Magong shengjun 马公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 areinvited to go on procession for two days. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公are invited to conduct rituals. Each year, one person is selected by divinationto be the head host (Fushou 福首).Birthday celebrations of the gods5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 andMagong shengju 马公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoistritual masters are invited to conduct rites.8/6: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Operais performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.11/3: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungryghosts are conducted at the Zongkongci 宗孔祠. Three in one Scripture masters 经师 conduct the service 超度. Marionette operas areperformed. Offerings are prepared by the every household. 各户备供品.Lindun used to be part of the white banner alliance. The people of Jiangdong江东 were caught stealing beans from Lindun, and they had to pay for theperformance of operas in Lindun as part of their punishment. The Jiangdong(white banner) people retaliated by attacking Lindun. Lindun resisted theirattack, and sought help from Donghua 东华 (black banner). Thus, Lindunbecame part of the black banner alliance.
