V138 Longhua 龙华1. Village settlement Longhua is also called Longpi 龙皮 or Longguan龙官. Longhua is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村.Longhua village currently has more than 300 people.2. Surname groups The Lin 林 makes up 60% of the village population.Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Huang 黄, Fang 方 and Zheng 郑. TheLin are divided into Donglin 东林 and Xilin 西林 lineage branches. Eachbranch had their own ancestral hall, but these no longer exist. Their ancestral tombs are in the Hugong mountains 壶公山. It is said that in the past,there were people who preached the Dao 讲道 in the village (the Longhuareligion 龙华教), and that when it rained, they would take a walk aroundChengzhong 埕中, and there would be no raindrops in the circle where theyhad walked. Thus the villagers are very pious Buddhists and Daoists, andthe place is known as “Ergong sancitang shibacuo ershisanfotang” (literallymeaning two temples, three ancestral halls, eighteen old homes, and twentythree Buddhist halls, signifying that there are a lot of religious buildings)二宫三祠堂十八厝二十三佛堂. The entire village has always been vegetarian, and no one raises pigs or chicken. There are several Buddhist nunneriesand retreats in the village.3. Village temples 1) Lianjiangjing Xianyingmiao 连江境显应庙: Originally built in the Song Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt in recent years.Middle: imperially granted 敕封 (title) Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯. Sidealtars: Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Chengong taifu 陈公太府, Zhuogong taibao卓公太保, Yanggong yuanshuai 杨公元帅.2) Xinxingshê 新兴社 was built recently, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Yaogong yuanshuai姚公元帅, Zhaode shengfei 昭德圣妃.3) Zhenwudian 真武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯 is carried on a procession around the village. In the morning of the15th, the roadways are sealed against demonic influences. The gods areescorted back to the temple. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiaorites 请道士做醮.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/17: The birthday celebration of Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯. Operais performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited tochant the scriptures.2/28: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chantthe scriptures.5/13: The birthday celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited tochant the scriptures.7/17: The birthday celebration of Zhuogong taibao 卓公太保. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chantthe scriptures.8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures.
