V139 Jiangdong 江东 )1. Village settlement Jiangdong, also known as Gangdong 巷东 and Pukou浦口, is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system infront of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This area was part of theHoujiangpu 垕江铺 (police/defense unit) of Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton.According to the villagers’ legends, Jiangdong village was originally a tidalflat, and the place was called Pukou 浦口 (river mouth). In the past, the mainlivelihood of the Jiangdong people was fishing, so their boats are all mooredby the sea side, thus the place was also called Wanchuanqian (meaning tenthousand boats in the front) 万船前. The entire village currently has morethan 6000 people, and they are divided into four neighborhoods: Dongza东杂, Xiza 西杂, Zhongjing 中境, and Yijing 义境. All of these areas aremanaged by the Jiangdong Administrative Village 江东行政村. The localtemple ritual system is divided into twelve shê ritual associations on the basisof different surnames.The Pukougong 浦口宫 of Jiangdong is the main overall temple of thetwelve shê ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, theshê alliances of Jiangdong were all part of the white banner alliance.2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up more than 50% of the overallvillage population, while the Qi 祁 make up approximately 30%. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, Jiang 江, Chen 陈, and Lin林. The Wu in the village are divided into five branches: Huanlang 环浪,Xiaoyou 孝友, Xiaoli 小立, Sanshan 三山, and Dongjiao 东角. Each branchhas a different origin and distinct ancestral halls. Their main ancestral hallis in Huangshi 黄石. The Huanlang branch of the Wu 环浪吴 makes upapproximately 30% of the Wu, and they are from Huangshi, and belong tothe Tuntian Wu 屯田吴. There branch has an ancestral hall, which serves asthe 老人会 Old Persons Association of the neighborhood. The Qi emigratedfrom Taiyuan city 太原 in Shanxi 山西 province to Putian. Their ancestral tombs are in Huating 华亭. The Qi of the village are divided into fourbranches: Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Gounan 沟南, and Goubei 沟北.3. Village temples 1) Fude dongshê 福德东社: Main god: Taiyi xiangu太乙仙姑.2) Houjiangjing Pukougong 垕江境浦口宫 is divided into Yongxingzhongshê 永兴中社 (the Wu 吴), Yongxing qianshê 永兴前社 (the Chen陈), Yongxing houshê 永兴后社 (the Wu 吴), Yongxing yishê 永兴义社 (theHuang 黄 and the Chen 陈), Xinxing yishê 信兴义社 (the Wu 吴), Fudedongshê 福德东社 (the Qi 祁), Fude xishê 福德西社 (the Lin 林), Huangxingsishê 黄兴祀社 (the Huang 黄), Taipingshê 太平社 (the Zhu 朱), Donglijiahe 东里家社 (the Zheng 郑), Dongchun shangshê 东春上社 (miscellaneous surnames 杂姓), Xinan shoushê 新安寿社 (miscellaneous surnames杂姓). There are 12 shê ritual associations in total. Apparently, there used toalso be a Heshangshê “和尚社” (Buddhist monk ritual association), but nowit no longer exists. Middle altar: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Jiang meifei江梅妃, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar:Jiang guojiu 江国舅, Wu zhenren 吴真人. Right altar: Tianshang shengmu天上圣母, Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君. Jiang Meifei is a figure of local Putianlegend who is said to have been summoned to the court during the Tang dueto her great beauty. The temple preserves several stelae, including: 1) Jiaqing16 (1811) 重修浦口宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Pukou Temple)(Epigraphical Materials, 1995:284, No. 248); 2) three stelae composed inJiaqing 18 (1813) entitled 重修浦口宫题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names ofthe contributors to the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:285–289, No. 249, 250, 251); 3) Guangxu 3 (1877) 重修浦口宫志(Account of the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials,1995:333, No. 297); and 4) three inscriptions entitled 重修浦口宫题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the restoration of the PukouTemple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:334–337, No. 298, 299, 300)3) Feiyunmiao 飞云庙 belongs to Zhongjing 中境 and Xiza 西杂 neighborhoods. Originally built prior to the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), itwas renovated during the Qing Jiaqing period (1796–1820). The temple isdedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军.Right: Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. This temple preserves a stele from Jiaqing15 (1810) entitled 飞云庙捐置祀业碑 (Stele on contributions leading to theestablishment of a fund for sacrifices at the Flying Cloud Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 275, No. 240).4) Shenqingmiao 神庆庙 belongs to Dongza 东杂 and Yijing 义境 neighborhoods. The main god is Sima shengwang司马圣王.5) Huluyan 葫芦岩 belongs to Huanlang 环浪 neighborhood. The main godis Yanggong taishi 杨公太师.6) Dongchen xunshê 东春巡社 belongs to Dongza 东杂 neighborhood. Themain god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.7) Mingxiatang 明霞堂 (Wanxiangci 万像祠) belongs to Xiza 西杂 neighborhood, and is the main temple for the Three in One religion 三一教 ofJiangdong village. The temple was rebuilt in 1986. In the main hall on themiddle altar is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 (twostatues). Right: Hufa longtian 护法龙天 (two statues). The left hall is dedicated to Qianshou Guanyin 千手观音. Front: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人.The right hall is dedicated to Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. The SJCDCB, 1992:15claims that there are 480 initiates.8) Dongshangci 东上祠 belongs to Yijing 义境 neighborhood, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Hufalongtou 护法龙头, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝.9) Zhongshangci 中上祠 belongs to Huanlang 环浪 neighborhood, and isdedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.10) Sanyidong 三一洞 is dedicated to Jin daren 金大人. Left: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Right: Li daye 李大爷, Huang daye黄大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷.11) Jixinge 即心阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars:Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝, Jintong 金童, Yunü 玉女.12) Feiyanfu 飞燕府 is dedicated to the Wuwei daren 五位大人. These arethe Xinghua Prefectural Commanding General Kong Zhouxi 兴化总兵孔兆熙, who died while fighting pirates in Ming Jiajing 41 (1562), and his fourgenerals. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lufu dashen鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.13) Zhongtianci 中天祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:15 claims that there are 820 initiates.14) Qiaotouci 桥头祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:15 claims that there are 520 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, each shê displays offeringsof fruit in the Pukougong 浦口宫 temple. Opera is performed right afterthe offering. On 1/7, Jiangguojiu 江国舅, Jiang Meifei 江梅妃, Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母 and Qiansiniang 钱四娘 are carried in a processionaround the entire village. Every time that Zhongjing 中境 is the host (onceevery 6–7 years), the main god, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, is taken ona procession around the entire village. On 1/10–12 each shê requests theincense burners from Pukougong 浦口宫 temple, and takes them on a procession within their own territory.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/7: The birthday celebration of Jiang guojiu 江国舅. Opera is performedfor two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette operais performed for two days.2/1: The birthday celebration of the Wuwei daren 五位大人 is held. Operais performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites. Every year with an intercalary lunar second month, a processionof the Wuwei daren is held.3/3: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera isperformed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrites.4/9:4/16:4/26:5/13:7/16:7/23:8/16:8/25:10/29:
