V140 The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Operais performed in Xiza 西杂 and Zhongjing 中境 for two days. Daoistritual masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Jiang Meifei 江梅妃. Opera is performedfor two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed in Huanlang 环浪 for two days. Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed in Dongza 东杂 and Yijing 义境 for two days. Daoist ritualmasters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionetteopera is performed for two days.The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Operais performed in Dongza 东杂 for two days. Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rites.Another celebration of Jiang Meifei 江梅妃. Opera is performed fortwo days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites.Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime Xiayuan pudu 下元普度rites are held. Three Sanyijiao 三一教 Scripture masters 经师 areinvited to conduct the rituals. Marionette plays of the Mulian opera目莲戏 are performed.Haibin wujia (Haibin five jia ritual alliance) 海滨五甲Haibin 海滨)1. Village settlement Haibin is located alongside the coastal tidal sea dikeson the Mulan 木兰 river. During the early Qing the village was “beyond theborders 界外”, and was forcibly evacuated. Haibin was part of the Donghuapu 东华铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里.Haibin village took shape in the Qing dynasty. The entire village currently hasmore than 3000 people, and is divided into five settlement clusters: Touqian头前, Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Dacuoli 大厝里 and Zhongcuo 中厝, all ofwhich are under the management of the Haibin Administrative Village 海滨行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up basically according tothe settlement clusters into five jia ritual associations. Each year these ritualassociations select twenty-four Fushou 福首 to organize the ritual activitiesof the year. Dongzhi 东至 and Xizhi 西至 each nominate six Fushou, whilethe other three jia each nominate four people each. In the feuding banneralliances of the late Qing, the five jia alliance of Haibin was part of the blackbanner alliance.2. Surname groups Huang 黄 is the only surname. It is said that the villageoriginally had some minor surnames, but they all changed their surnamesto the Huang surname in recent years. According to the “Huang genealogyof Haibin” 海滨黄氏族谱, the Huang migrated to Putian 莆田 during theTang Dynasty. Originally, they mainly settled in Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang涵江. They later migrated to Haibin 海滨, and have been living there forapproximately twenty generations. The Huang are divided into five branches:Touqian 头前, Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Dacuoli 大厝里, and Zhongcuo中厝 of which Dongzhi and Xizhi together make up approximately 50%of the population, while the Zhongcuo branch makes up 19%, the Dacuoli大厝里 branch 21%, and the Touqiancuo 头前厝 branch 10%. There is amain ancestral hall, which is now the village committee 村委会 headquarters. Each branch has their own zucuo (ancestral house) 祖厝, where thecorpses of the recently deceased are temporarily placed. They function asmortuaries (Taipingjian) 太平间 until the deceased can be buried.3. Village temples 1) Jingjiangjing Chunqiu yishê 京江境春秋义社 isthe main temple for Haibin 海滨. Originally belonged to the Hong 洪, itis now owned by the Huang 黄. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.Secondary gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人,Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Banshan daxian 半山大仙,Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师.2) Xingxun zushê 兴巡祖庙 is the main temple of Haibin Wujia: Maingods: Jiang daren 江大人, Bai daren 白大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Zhu daren朱大人, Tian daren 田大人. Secondary gods: Duchayuan yushi 都察院御史,Zhongjun 中军, Baban 八班.3) Shanbentang 善本堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. Front secondary god: Lufu xianggong鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Xuzhongjun 许中军 and Lizhongjun李中军.4) Xingxunmiao 兴巡庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondarygods: Jiang daren 江大人, Bai daren 白大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Zhu daren朱大人, Tian daren 田大人.5) Dongzhenci 东镇祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.6) Xianqingsi 仙庆寺, Qingshantang 庆善堂: Rebuilt in 1988, the temple isco-owned by Haibin 海滨, Jiangdong 江东, Donghua 东华, Donghua 东甲,and Zhelang 遮浪. Front hall: Main gods: Shijia wenfo 释加文佛, Sanjiukupusa 三救苦菩萨. Secondary gods: Left: Weituo 韦陀. Right: Jialan 伽蓝.Front right: Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉. Rearhall (Qingshantang 庆善堂): Main god: Milefo 弥勒佛. Secondary gods: Left:Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenshu pusa 文殊菩萨, Puxian pusa 普贤菩萨.Right: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhuoshizhenren 卓氏真人. Right side hall: Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师.7) Longdetang 隆德堂 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.8) Jufumiao 聚福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.9) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:13 claims that there are 2006 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Dongzhi 东至 takes Yanggongtaishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession withinits territory. On 1/11–12, Xizhi 西至 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 andTianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/15,Zhongcuo 中厝 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/20, Dacuoli 大厝里takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on aprocession within its territory. On 1/24, Touqian 头前 takes Yanggong taishi杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invitedto conduct rites.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师.5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Villagers go onpilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong mountain 壶公山 to request the god’s incense.7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人.7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.8/13: The birthday celebration of Wuwei daren 五位大人.8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days.9/23: The birthday celebration of Xu zhongjun 许中军 and Li zhongjun李中军.On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited toconduct rites.10/15: Rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are performed for the hungry ghosts. Marionette plays are performed.
