V141 Zhelang sanjia (Zhelang three jia ritual alliance) 遮浪三甲Zhelang 遮浪)1. Village settlement Zhelang is located alongside the tidal sea dikes ofthe Mulan 木兰 river mouth. The area was part of the Dongjiaopu 东角铺of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. During the early Qing the village was“beyond the borders” 界外, and the village was forcibly evacuated. The villagewas already settled in the Ming. The village currently has more than 4000 residents, who live in three settlement clusters: Chencuo 陈厝, Chengcuo 程厝,and Huangcuo 黄厝, all of which are managed by the Zhelang AdministrativeVillage 遮浪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into three jiaritual associations on the basis of lineage and settlement.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Cheng 程and Huang 黄. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 of Chengjiao 城郊, whilethe Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江, and the Cheng camefrom Chengkou 程口 of Beigao 北高 (of the same ancestry as the Cheng ofDonghua 东华程). The Cheng lineage was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming. They produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates)and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates).Jifumiao 集福庙 of Chencuo 陈厝 is the main temple for the three jiaritual associations. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the threejia alliances of Zhelang were all part of the black banner alliance.3. Village temples 1) Zhujiangjing Jifumiao 珠江境集福庙, Xinanshê新安社 (also known as the Lüxianyan 吕仙岩) is located in Chencuo 陈厝.Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggongtaishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Yuantianshangdi 元天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yangfu jiuniang杨府九娘, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Ligongzhangzhe 李公长者, Sugong ershi 苏公二使, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣.2) Ruizhu shuyuan 蕊珠书院, Xinan shangshê 新安上社 is located inChengcuo 程厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods includeYanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Zhanggong shengjun张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨, Weituo zunzhe韦驮尊者 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母.3) Tongyingmiao 通应庙 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main god: Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen鲁府夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使,Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Li zhangzhe 李长者, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子,Niushan dawang 牛山大王, Zhu dawang 猪大王.4) Xianyingdian 显应殿 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. Main god: Guangzezunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods: Yide xianfei 懿德仙妃 and Siye 四爷.5) Mingzhutang 明珠堂 is located in Huangcuo 黄厝. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Lingguan dadi灵官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅,Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xingru Lu xiansheng 性如卢先生. TheSJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 635 initiates.6) Xinan xinshê 新安新社 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main gods: Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人.7) Xian dongshê 新安东社 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.8) Dexinci 德馨祠 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu三一教主.9) Qingyuantang 清源堂 is located outside the village. There is a Sanguanbaodian 三官宝殿 Buddhist Three Treasures Hall inside the temple. Thistemple originally belonged to the Guanmenjiao 关门教 (closed-door religious movement). Main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanguan dadi三官大帝. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰.10) Jiqingtang 积庆堂 is located in Chencuo 陈厝 and dedicated toSixiongdi 四兄弟.11) Baoyuantang 保元堂 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. The temple was builtin 1877. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Luwenhui卢文辉.12) Dexinci 德馨祠 is located in Chencuo 陈厝 and is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhuihuixu 朱慧虚 and Hufa longtian护法龙天.13) Gongdeci 功德祠: This temple preserves a stele composed by ChengGongchen 程拱辰 in Wanli 30 (1602) entitled 修东角遮浪石隄记 (Recordof the restoration of the dike from Dongjia to Zhelang). (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:192, No. 168).14) Mingxintang 明馨堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB:13 claims that there are about 1170 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Chengcuo 程厝 invites theincense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道(carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In theevening palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods are carried over bonfires. On1/13–14, Chencuo 陈厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visiteach household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a processionaround its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/15–16, Huangcuo 黄厝 invites the incense burnersof the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao)and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairsof the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/17, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵is held for the three jia ritual associations. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 are invited to go on processionaround the entire territory.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/18: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invitedto conduct rites.7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed.Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionetteopera is performed.8/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinan shangshê 新安上社. Opera is performed.Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinan dongshê 新安东社. Opera is performed.Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.11/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Opera is performed.11/2: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.11/3: The Xiayuan Pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of theLower Prime are carried out at the Mingzhutang 明珠堂. Marionetteplays are performed 木偶戏.
