V142 Huadi 华堤1. Village settlement Huadi village is managed by the Huadi AdministrativeVillage 华堤行政村. Huadi village was originally divided into Huadi 华堤and Weicuo 尾厝, but now the two have combined, becoming a natural village under the name of Huadi. The entire village has approximately 2700people.2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Xie 谢, Zheng郑 and Lin 林. The Wu make up approximately 50% of the population whilethe Chen make up approximately 30%. The Wu first emigrated from Daomei道美 of Huangshi 黄石 to Jiangdong 江东, then one of the households movedto Huadi and gradually developed the region. The Wu are divided into theTianwei 田尾 branch and the Weicuo 尾厝 branch. There is a commonancestral hall called Guangyuci 光裕祠, and it is used during the Yuanxiaofestivals. Their genealogy is in Huangshi while their ancestral tombs are nearthe Huangshi Number 1 high school 黄石一中. The Chen emigrated fromBeigao 北高, and divided into two branches, the Yigu 一谷 and Ergu 二谷.The Zheng have just over 100 people, and they emigrated from the area nearGuanghuasi 广化寺 during the Ming Tianqi period (1621–1627).3. Village temples 1) Huajiangjing Xingtaiyan 华江境兴泰岩 is the maintemple for Huadi. Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, it was rebuiltboth during the Qing Guangxu period (1875–1908) and in 1984. Middle:Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left: Bajiang 八将, Zaobo 皂伯, Dongdaye东大爷. Right: Bajiang 八将, Zaobo 皂伯, Xidaye 西大爷. Left side hall:Yang jiuniang 杨九娘.2) Zhenwudian 真武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Sidealtars: Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Weijiangjun 魏将军, Li jiangjun 李将军.3) Denglong shushê 登龙书社 belongs to the Wu 吴. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Liugong yuanshuai刘公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君.4) Fuyoushê 福佑社 belongs to the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师,Wudiye 五帝爷, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.5) Yingyoushê 英佑社 belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Zheng 郑. Middle:Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士.6) Dengmingshê 灯明社 belongs to the Xie 谢. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人.7) Dechengfu 德成府 belongs to the Wu of Tianwei 田尾. Middle: Cuifudama 崔府大妈. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人,Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Daye 大爷.8) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built in 2002, and belongs to Zhoushejia周社甲. Middle: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Tianqianshengmu 天前圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士.9) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.10) Mingxintang 明心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.11) Sanshengci 三圣祠 was first built during the Ming Tianqi period (1621–27), and was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人 (The Huang of Huazhong 华中, the Zheng of Huadi华堤, and the Lin 林 and the Zhang 张 of Huadi 华堤 each sculpted theirown set of statues of these gods). Left: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen鲁府夫人. Right: Huilie shenghou 慧烈圣侯 (supported by the Huang ofHuazhong 华中). Front: Guangfu furen 广福夫人, Erwei jinren 二位金人,Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Nezha taizi 哪吒太子, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.12) Fuxitang 浮溪堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Zhuoshizhenren 卓氏真人. Right: Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法.13) Yuhuaci 玉华祠 belongs to the Wu 吴 of Tianwei 田尾. Middle: Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝.14) Tianhua chansi 天华禅寺 was rebuilt in 1991. Middle: Sanzhenfo 三真佛.Side altars: Milefo 弥勒佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan迦蓝, 18 Luohan 十八罗汉.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the Wu 吴 take Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃on a procession within their territory. On 1/15, the Xie 谢 of Dengmingshê,the Chen 陈 of Xinanshê 新安社 and the Chen, Lin, Li, and Zheng ofFuxingshê all go on a procession within their territory. On 1/16, the Chentake Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 on a procession within their territory. On 1/21, on the final evening of the Yuanxiaoritual (weiwan Yuanxiao 尾晚元宵), Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Liugongyuanshuai 刘公元帅 are taken on a procession around the village. ThreeDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual. On 2/3, Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, as well as the Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 of the Chongshengci 崇圣祠 of Huazhong 华中 village are all taken ona procession around the three village alliance of Donghua.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chantthe scriptures.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.4/28: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Fuyoushê. Opera is performed for two days. OneDaoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures.8/12: The birthday celebration of Huilie shenghou 慧烈圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Dengmingshê. Marionette plays are performed.8/23: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chantthe scriptures.8/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Denglong fenshê 登龙分社. Opera is performed fortwo days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures.10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingyoushê 英佑社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritualmaster is invited to chant the scriptures.10/29: Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度. Sanyijiao 三一教Scripture masters are invited to perform rites.
