V144 Huadong 华东1. Village settlement Huadong is managed by the Huadong AdministrativeVillage 华东行政村. Huadong was originally divided into villages such asHuadong 华东, Yangqiaotou 杨桥头, and Hengtouqiu 横头丘, but now theyare all linked together into a single natural village. The entire village currentlyhas more than 4000 people,2. Surname groups The Chen make up 90% of the village population.Other surname groups include the Huang 黄 and the Wu 吴. The Chen camefrom Shanqian 山前 of Beigao 北高, and are divided into three branches:Touqian 头前, Shuxia 树下, and Houcuo 后厝. They also have a lineagegenealogy 族谱. The Huang currently have an ancestral hall, but the mostof the people of the surname group have migrated to Huangshi 黄石. Sixpeople are selected to be Fushou 福首 each year by divination.3. Village temples 1) Panshigong 磐石宫, Panshuishê 泮水社 is themain temple for the village. The temple was rebuilt in 1982. Middle: Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师.Right altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅,Chengong taishi 陈公太师.2) Hongjingmiao 弘靖庙: Originally built right after the founding of thePRC, this temple was renovated in 1985. Middle: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Left altar: Liu daye 柳大爷, Huang daye黄大爷, Chen daye 陈大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄二爷. Rightaltar: Xu daye 徐大爷, Zhu daye 朱大爷, Li daye 李大爷, Wu daye 吴大爷,Xu guniang 徐姑娘, Siye 四爷.3) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars:Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝.4) Huajiang shuyuan 华江书院 was originally co-owned by Donghua 东华,Zhelang 遮浪, and Haibin 海滨 villages. Middle: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.Side altars: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer mamu 鹿儿马母.5) Yuhuangdian 玉皇殿 was rebuilt in 1990. Middle: Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Left: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kangyuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. Right:Dafa tianshi 大法天师, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Wu yuanshuai 吴元帅, Xinyuanshuai 辛元帅, Dianmu 电母. East side: Daye 大爷. West side: Lufuxianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人.6) Tongmingdian 通明殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Niushan dawang 牛山大王, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Fude zhengshen 福德正神.7) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝.8) Deyuanmiao 德源庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.9) Dongzhenci 东镇祠 was built in Ming Jiajing 21 (1542). The back hallis dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.Left: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝. Right: Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. Left side: Zhang Sanfeng张三丰. Right side: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人.10) Mingyangtang 明扬堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is the secondary god.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Chengong taishi 陈公太师, Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Kanggong yuanshuai康公元帅 descends to possess Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums). ThreeSanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited to conduct rites. On2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantianshangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and the Wuhuang dadi五皇大帝 of Chongshenci 崇圣祠 of Huazhong village are invited to go onprocession within the three village alliance of Donghua.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited.1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera isperformed for two days. One ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited.3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripturemasters 三一教经师 are invited.4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripturemasters 三一教经师 are invited.5/6: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited.6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.6/17:7/7:7/16:7/17:7/23:8/6:8/21:8/23:8/8:9/19:10/15:10/23:10/29:12/24:The birthday celebration of Niushan dawang 牛山大王. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chantthe scriptures.The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. One ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.The birthday celebration of Dafa tianshi 大法天师. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited.The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Operais performed for two days. Between one to three Sanyijiao Scripturemasters 三一教经师 are invited.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王. Opera isperformed for two days.The birthday celebration of Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days.The birthday celebration of Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera isperformed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripturemasters 三一教经师 are invited.The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited.Universal Deliverance rites of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are performed at the Dongzhenci东镇祠. Mulian opera (with marionettes)目莲戏 is performed for one day. Three to seven Sanyijiao Scripturemasters 三一教经师 are invited.The birthday celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime rites 下元普度 are performed at the Panshigong磐石宫. Mulian opera (with marionettes)目莲戏 is performed for one day. Three to seven Sanyijiao Scripturemasters 三一教经师 are invited.The birthday celebration of Chengong taishi 陈公太师. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant thescriptures.
