V145 Jingpu 井埔1. Village settlement Jingpu is part of the Jinghou Administrative Village井后行政村. Jinghou village currently has more than 2000 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱, Cheng 程and Li 李. According to the survey data from 1993, the Zhu surname groupmakes up two thirds of the population of the entire village. Apart from this,there are some forty Cheng households, over thirty Li households, morethan ten Lin 林 household, six Jin 靳 households, four Wu 吴 households,and four Chen 陈 households. The Zhu claim to have fled from Gushi 固始county in Guangzhou 光州 prefecture of Henan province 河南 to Gutiancounty 古田县 of Fujian province during the Huangchao 黄巢 rebellionin the late Tang dynasty. The Zhu claim that their ancestor was appointedDistrict Magistrate 县令 of Gutian, and later his descendants migrated andsettled in the Shuinan ritual territory 水南境 of Putian 莆田. Currently, theZhu preserve a lineage genealogy 族谱, a lineage ancestral hall 祠堂 and atombstone of the deceased mother of the county magistrate of Gutian (néeXiao) 唐古田令朱公妣敕封恭人萧氏墓.3. Village temples 1) Yujingjing Antai xingshê 玉井境安泰兴社 wasrebuilt in 1985. Zhongzuo shenzhang 中座神帐: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Left: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right: Taiyixiangu 太乙仙姑.2) Xianji shushê 显济书社 was rebuilt in 1993. Central altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王,Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar: Jiayou shenghou 嘉祐圣侯, Linshuifuren 临水夫人 (commonly call Furenma 夫人妈).3) Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人.4) Xianjimiao 显济庙 is dedicated to Song imperially enfeoffed Weiling jiayouhou Zhugong 宋敕封威灵嘉祐侯朱公 and to Ziyang zhuwengong 紫阳朱文公 (Zhu Xi 朱熹).5) Fengluangong 凤峦宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.Side altars: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神.6) Xinqionglou 新瓊楼 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.7) Xingshengci 兴圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝.8) Taihuci 太湖祠 was built in Ming Wanli 20 (1592), at the urging of ZhuHuixu 朱慧虚, a close disciple of Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩, founder of the Threein One religious movement. The temple was listed as one of the major cultural preservation sites of Putian county in 1986, and was renovated in 1992.Front hall, central altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren三峰真人. Right altar: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Back altar: Milefo 弥勒佛.Back hall, central altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Wenchangdijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Shuiguan dadi 水官大帝. East corridor: Huoguan dadi 火官大帝. West corridor: Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 of Taihuci太湖祠. Eastern side hall: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Sida jiangjun 四大将军. Western side hall: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Zhongjun 中军.The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 770 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11, the Zhu 朱 take the incenseburners of the gods of Xianji shushê 显济书社 to each household to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). Four Fushou 福首 are selected to carry theincense burners. On 1/12–13, the miscellaneous surname group 杂姓 takethe incense burners of the gods of Antai xingshê 安泰兴社 to xingdao 行道(practice the Dao). Two Fushou 福首 are selected. On 1/14–15, the Zhu 朱of Puding 舖顶 and the Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 of Houzhu 后珠 take theincense burners of the gods of Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 to xingdao 行道(practice the Dao). On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated bythe entire village. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Fengluangong 凤峦宫 isinvited to go on procession around the five shê alliance.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Antai xingshê 安泰兴社.4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera.6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神.7/15: The birthday celebration of Jiayou shenghou 嘉佑圣侯. Every twelveyears, a procession first takes place through the five shê and then goesall around the streets and lanes of Huangshi 黄石 town.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionetteopera is performed.8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xianji shushê 显济书社.8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 is held.11/11: Rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are heldat Taihuci. Three in One scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited toconduct the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance ofthe hungry ghosts. Marionette opera is performed.
