V149 Wulong 五龙1. Village settlement Wulong is part of the Heping Administrative Village和平行政村. Wulong village currently has more than 1000 people.2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方 and the Chen 陈.Other surnames include the Wu 吴, Zhou 周, Li 李 and Huang 黄.3. Village temples 1) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.2) Tongtiansi 通天寺: Originally built during the Song Dynasty, the templewas rebuilt in Ming Chongzhen 13 (1640), by the Jinshi 进士 Yu Wanxing余万兴 and another Patron 檀越 named Yu Peng 余鹏. The temple wasrebuilt again in Qing Guangxu 33 (1907). Middle altar: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Side altars: theEighteen Luohan 十八罗汉.3) Tongtiantang 通天堂, Lingcongshê 灵聪社: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi观音大士, Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Ligongzhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃.4) Tongmingci 通明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar:Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufufuren 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Fang 方 invite the gods ofXingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on a procession within their territory. On1/10, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of the Lingcongshê 灵聪社 to go on aprocession within their territory. On 1/15, the miscellaneous surnames groupinvite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on a procession within theirown territory.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionetteopera is performed.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社. Opera is performed.Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Lingcongshê 灵聪社. Opera is performed. Daoistmasters are invited to conduct rites.8/17:
