V150 Goubian 沟边1. Village settlement Goubian was originally called Shifu 石阜. Goubianis part of the Heping Administrative Village 和平行政村. Goubian currentlyhas 1800 people, and is divided into four shê ritual associations: the Huang黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈 and the Lu 卢.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Lin 林,Chen 陈 and Lu 卢. Currently, there exists a Huang and a Chen ancestralhall 宗祠. The Huang have 400 people. They emigrated from Shifu village石阜村 near the Sijiaoting 四脚亭 of Huangshi, and divided themselves intothree branches: Weiguan 为官, Weiqian 为前, and Weimin 为敏. Currently,they are in their 8th and 9th generation.3. Village temples 1) Shifujing Longdonggong 石阜境龙洞宫 was builtin Ming Wanli 12 (1584) and renovated in 1920. The rear hall was rebuilt in1986 while the front hall was rebuilt in 1990, and finished in 1991. Middlealtar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.Right altar: Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. Left side: Huang daren 黄大人. Rightside: Xu jiangjun 徐将军.2) Yi’anshê 义安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人. Left: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right: Sima shengwang 司马圣王.3) Xingyuan ting 兴元亭, Liantangshê 莲塘社 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯.Front: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Jixiang dajiang吉祥大将.4) Longtougong 龙头宫: Middle altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Houtufuren 后土夫人.5) Fulushê 福禄社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人. Left: Shuibu shangshu 水部尚书. Right: Tianshang shengmu天上圣母. The right hall is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Theleft hall is dedicated to Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right altar: Fude zhengshen福德正神.6) Huiyuan shuyuan 会源书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.Left: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母.7) Julanting 聚兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Puhuatianzun 普化天尊. Right: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天.8) Xingyuanmiao 兴元庙 is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军.9) Cishantang 慈善堂 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.10) Hanantang 涵安堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5–6, the Lin 林 carry the gods ofthe Yianshê 义安社 in a procession to each household in their territory toxingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). On 1/7–8, the Huang 黄 do the same. On1/9–10, the Lu 卢 carry the gods of the Liantangshê 莲塘社 in a processionto each household in their territory to practice the Dao. On 1/11–12, theChen 陈 carry the gods of the Fulushê 福禄社 in a procession to each household in their territory to practice the Dao. On 1/14, a common Yuanxiao总元宵 is held for the entire village. On this day, Wenwu zhanggong 文武张公, Wuwu sima shenghou 文武司马圣侯, Huishi shenghou 惠世圣侯,Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in aprocession around the entire territory. Bonfires are run across 踏火, operais performed 演戏, and fireworks are set off 放花. During Yuanxiao 元宵,the gods visit each home to xingdao 行道. This is done in the followingway: first, the Fushou 福首 pick up the incense burners from the altar ofthe Yianshê 义安社 to start the procession (起马). Then prayers are madein the hall of each household. After the procession has circled the mountain (Quanshan 圈山) the incense burners are carried to the Longdonggong龙洞宫. There, Daoist ritual masters 法师 chant the scriptures. Next, thegods and the incense burners are carried to the Julanting 聚兰亭 and thenback to the shê. Finally, at the home of the Fushou who is holding the lastincense burner of the previous year, three Daoist ritual masters conduct aJiao ritual. There were originally only three Fushou but now there are seven.There are three basic requirements for becoming a Fushou. The person has to:1) take part in the Chunzhai 春斋 Spring Fast (purification) in the first year,and 2) agree to host the Chujiuzao 初九早 (a kind of banquet held on theninth day of the New Year); and to 3) invite the xianglao 乡老 Village Eldersto the feast. Only then can the person become a Fushou in the third year.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Chen 陈, andfunds are collected on a per capita basis.6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.8/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong daren 黄公大人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Fulushê 福禄社. Opera is performed for two days.These events are organized by the Chen 陈, and funds are collected ona per capita basis.9/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Yianshê 义安社. Opera is performed for two days.These events are organized by the Huang 黄 and the Lin 林, and fundsare collected on a per capita basis.10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Liantangshê 莲塘社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. These events areorganized by the Lu 卢, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.8/6:
