V151 Daomei 道美1. Village settlement Daomei is also called Duwei 度尾. Daomei village ismanaged by the Shuinan Administrative Village 水南行政村. Daomei villagecurrently has 1100 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yu 余 and the Song宋. The Yu have 400 people while the Song have 500 people. Other surnamesinclude the Zeng 曾, Hu 胡, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Chen 陈 and Lu 卢. Theancestor of the Yu, Yu Gaogong 余镐公, is said to have fled to Fujian during the Huang Chao revolt 黄巢起义 of the late Tang Dynasty. The descendants of Yu Yigong 余毅公, an ancestor of the fourth generation, are dividedinto three branches, of which the Ji branch 季房 has now reached the 33rdgeneration.3. Village temples 1) Yongxingshê 永兴社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshizhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.2) Yunshuidong 云水洞: Upper hall: Li zhenren 李真人. Lower hall: Zhuozhenren 卓真人.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, the Song 宋 take all the godsof Yongxingshê 永兴社 on a procession within their territory. On 1/8, theYu 余 take all the gods of Yongxingshê to go on procession within their ownterritory. On 1/15, the entire village goes on processsion around its entireritual territory.Birthday celebrations of the gods2/25: The birthday celebration of Li zhenren 李真人. Marionette opera isperformed.6/12:9/12:7/11:8/15:10/15:The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette operais performed.The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited toconduct rites.The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 (Univeral Salvation of the Middle Prime)rites are carried out at Yunshuidong 云水洞. Marionette opera isperformed.Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime)rites are carried out at the Yongxingshê 永兴社 and the Yunshuidong云水洞. Marionette opera is performed.
