V164 Dongjia sijia (Dongjia four jia ritual alliance) 东甲四甲Dongjia 东甲)1. Village settlement The four jia ritual alliance of Dongjia is locatedbetween the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation systemand the sea dikes at the mouth of the Mulan river. Dongjia was originallypart of the Dongjiaopu 东角铺 of the Lianjiang sub-canton 连江里. In theMing the village of Dongjia had already been settled, and currently thereare approximately 10,000 residents. The village is managed by the twoAdministrative Villages of Dongjia 东甲 and Xucuo 徐厝. The temple ritualsystem is divided into four jia ritual associations on the basis of lineage andresidence: these are Dongtou 东头, Xicuo 西厝, Xucuo 徐厝, and Xiecuo谢厝. The Liuqidian 流憩殿 temple of Xucuo 徐厝 (see below) is the maintemple of the four jia ritual alliance, and the Xin’anshê 新安社 (see below)is the founding shê of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the lateQing, the four jia alliance of Dongjia was part of the white banner alliance.2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 makes up 50% if the population of Dongjiaand the Xie 谢 makes up another 33%. Other surnames include the Zhu 朱,Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Zhang 张, Wang 王, Zhuo 卓, Zhou 周, Wu 吴, and Lin 林.3. Village temples 1) Dongjiamiao 东甲庙, Liuqidian 流憩殿 was originally built in Ming Hongwu 1 (1368), and then was rebuilt in the QingTongzhi 3 (1864), and renovated in 1928. The main god is Yuantian shangdi元天上帝. Secondary gods are Zhang Tianshi 张天师 and the Bajiang 八将.This temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 1 (1851) entitled 重整东甲庙题捐碑 (Stele announcing the merit of those involved in the renovation of the Dongjia Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:318, No. 282)and another stele composed in Guangxu 13 (1887) entitled 东甲庙社公会碑记 (Stele on the Dongjia temple shê association) (Epigraphical Materials,1995:344, No. 307).2) Xinanshê 新安社, Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, andWenchang dijun 文昌帝君.3) Dongjia Xinanshê 东甲新安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Shuntianshengmu 顺天圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.4) Tianbaodian 天保殿 is dedicated to Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. The secondary god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.5) Shunxingfu 顺兴府 was originally built in Guangxu 1 (1875). The maingods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人.
