V169 Dounan wushê (Dounan five shê ritual alliance) 斗南五社Dounan 斗南1. Village settlement Dounan is also called Doumentou 斗门头. Dounanis located on the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. Dounan was originally part of the Yantou Dounanpu 岩头斗南铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. The village first took shape duringthe Qing. The current population is more than 2000 people. Donan is bothan Administrative Village as well as a natural village. The temple ritual system is divided primarily by surname into five shê ritual associations.2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Zhu 朱, Lin 林,Zheng 郑, and Yang 杨. There are also the minor surnames of Cai 蔡, Luo罗, Zhang 张, and Zhang 章.3. Village temples 1) Nanyanggong 南阳宫: Main god: Xuantian shangdi玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu天上圣母.2) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyixiangu 太乙仙姑.3) Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人.4) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Cijizhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王.5) Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人.6) Xingtaishê 兴泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Simashengwang 司马圣王.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the Lin 林 invite the gods ofXingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out theDao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Zhu朱 invite the gods of Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 to visit each householdto xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within theirterritory. On 1/11, the Luo 罗, Zhang 张, Zhang 章 and Cai 蔡 invite thegods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to visit each household to xingdao (carryout the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/12,the Yang 杨 invite the gods of Xingtaishê 兴泰社 to visit each householdto xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within theirterritory. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 invite the gods of Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to goon procession within their territory. On 1/24, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 iscelebrated by the entire village. The gods of Nanyanggong 南阳宫 are invitedto go on procession within the five shê alliance.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王.8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人.On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited toconduct rites.
