V170 Pingshan wushê (Pingshan five shê ritual alliance) 屏山五社Pingshan 屏山)1. Village settlement The five shê alliance of Pingshan is located alongsidethe Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system.Pingshan was originally part of the Qiantangpu 钱塘铺 (police/defense unit)of the Pingshan Xingfuli sub-canton 屏山兴福里. In the Ming, the village ofChenshan 陈山 was already settled in this area. In the Qing the village ofHucuo 湖厝 (now known as Meihu 梅湖) separated off. These are now combined into Pingshan 屏山 village, which has a population of more than 3000people, and which is managed by the Pingshan Administrative Village 屏山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to surnames andsettlement into five shê ritual associations.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Li李. Other surnames include the Liu 刘, Xu 徐, Zhang 张, and Zheng 郑.3. Village temples 1) Taihegong 太和宫: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.2) Yicheng zushê 义成祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.3) Yicheng xingshê 义成兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人.4) Yicheng shushê 义成书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人.5) Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人.6) Meihujing Guangrong shushê 梅湖境光荣书社 is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Simashengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huilie shenghou惠烈圣侯, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Erye二爷, Sanye 三爷.7) Zongkongci 宗孔祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Meihu 梅湖 invites the godsof Guangrong shushê 光荣书社 to visit each household to xingdao and togo on procession within its territory. On 1/12, the Chen 陈 invite the godsof Yicheng shushê 义成书社 to visit each household to xingdao and to goon procession within its territory. On 1/13, the miscellaneous surname group杂姓 invites the gods of Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社 to visit each householdto xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/14, the Li 李invite the gods of Yicheng xingshê 义成兴社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/15, the Chen 陈 invitethe gods of Yicheng zushê 义成祖社 to visit each household to xingdao andto go on procession within its territory. On 1/20–30, on a day determinedby divination, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 festival for the five shê allianceis held. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to go on procession aroundPingshan 屏山 and Meihu. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual mastersconduct Jiao rites.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师.5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Yicheng zushê 义成祖社.7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.8/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社.10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Guangrong shushê 光荣书社.10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Yicheng shushê 义成书社.On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conductJiao rites.
