V172 Houji 后积1. Village settlement Houji is part of Dongfeng Administrative Village东风行政村. Houji village has approximately 1000 people.2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Xu 徐, the Lin 林, and the Weng 翁. There is a Chenancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 and a Manichean stele 摩尼教残碑 has been preserved in the Wanlinggong 万灵宫.3. Village temples 1) The Yongxingshê 永兴社 is within the Wanlinggong万灵宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Kong daren 孔大人 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Secondary godsinclude Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯, Lufudaren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Siye 四爷, andWuye 五爷.2) Houshanci 厚山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondarygods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 all the gods of Yongxingshê永兴社 and the Wanlinggong 万灵宫 are invited to go on a processionwithin the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invitedto conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and fundsare collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within thesevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanling gong万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout theentire ritual alliance.The Birthday celebrations of the gods2/2: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/18: The birthday celebration of Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯.7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人.For all the events above, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, andfunds are collected on a per capita basis.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Operais performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited toconduct rituals. This ritual is organized by Houshanci 厚山祠, andfunding is raised through voluntary contributions.In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthdaycelebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 isheld.10/17: The birthday celebration of Kong daren 孔大人. On this occasion, asfor the birthday of the gods of the shê altar preceeding it, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Theentire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected ona per capita basis.Every 60 years, Kong daren of Xiling 西灵孔大人 goes on procession aroundthe numerous villages in the region. These events are organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and each village sends a representative to participate in themanagement of the event. Kong Daren is considered one of the most powerful Wangye 王爷 of the Putian plains.
