V175 Qianchengkou 前程口1. Village settlement Qianchengkou was originally called Chengkou澄口. Qianchengou is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. Qianchengkou has a total population of approximately 1800 people. Itis divided into a Lin region 林境 and the mixed region 杂境2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Fang 方 and the Cai 蔡.3. Village temples 1) Chengjiangjing Qiantanggong 澄江境钱塘宫includes the Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社, and is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods includeTianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhaoling shengjun 昭灵圣君,and Jixing dajiang 吉祥大将.2) Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 is co-owned with Louxia 楼下: The maingods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王,Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Liugongyuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将.3) Fengchici 凤池祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:37 claims that there are 250 initiates.4) Fengshanci 凤山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:37 claims that there are 195 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the Lin 林 segment of the villageinvites all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and the Qiantanggong钱塘宫 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations areorganized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a percapita basis. On 1/9 the mixed-surname segment 杂姓 of the village invitesall the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 togo on procession within its territory and that of Louxia 楼下 village. Operais performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Thisritual is jointly organized by this territory itself and by Louxia village, andfunds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 marionette plays are performed. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Operais performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Thecelebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected ona per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/5: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王.For both these celebrations, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, andfunds are collected on a per capita basis.5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. This occasion, which involves opera and ritual performances, is organized by the mixed surname segment 杂境 of thevillage, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within its territory.5/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. This occasion, which involves opera and ritual performances. These events are organized by the Lin segment 林境 ofthe village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within itsterritory.
