V176  Louxia 楼下1. Village settlement Louxia is is part of the Tingfeng AdministrativeVillage 汀峰行政村. The population of Louxia is approximately 400 people.2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡.3. Village temples 1) Yaobogong 瑶波宫: The main god is Cigan xianfei慈感仙妃.2) Wenminggong 文明宫: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅, Bi yuanshuai 毕元帅, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Ma yuanshuai马元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Xin yuanshuai 辛元帅, Zhan yuanshuai占元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, and Guan yuanshuai 关元帅.3) Yizhong tang 一中堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Sanguan daren 三官大人, and Hu ye 虎爷.4) Rendetang Buddhist temple 仁德堂. (PTZJZ, 1992:204).4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 are invited to go on processionwithin the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invitedto conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this territory itself andby the mixed surname group in Qianchengkou 前程口, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 ofWanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession through all the villages within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoistritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organizedby Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis fromthroughout the entire ritual allianceBirthday celebrations of the gods1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette playsare performed, and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invitedto conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, andfunds are collected on a per capita basis.4/21: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Theentire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected ona per capita basis.5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 from Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 (of Qianchengkouvillage). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited toconduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this village itselfand by the mixed surname group 杂姓 in Qianchengkou 前程口 andfunds are collected on a per capita basis within these areas..
