V197 Lantian 蓝田1. Village settlement Lantian is also known as Nantiang 南田 and is partof the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The population of Lantianvillage is above 1500 people.2. Surname groups Lantian has the following main surname groups: theHuang 黄 and the Zhang 张. In addition there are also the Lin 林, the Dai戴, the Weng 翁, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Kang 康surnames in the village. Lantian is divided into the Shangshê 上社 and theZhongshê 中社. Each year each part of the village selects two Fushou 福首by rotation.3. Village temples 1) Lantianjing Yongangong 蓝田境永安宫 containsthe altar of the Yongan shangshê 永安上社. The main gods are Xuantianshangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu (two statues) 天上圣母, Lieqiao daren烈窍大人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiankui天魁, Dikui 地魁, Asan 阿三, Asi 阿四, and Bajiang 八将.2) Yongan zhongshê 永安中社. The main gods are, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wulujiangjun 五路将军.3) Xinfatang 新发堂: The main gods are Chen dage 陈大哥, Liu dage 柳大哥and Zeng dage 曾大哥.4) Qingliangci 清莲祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:20 claims that there are 309 initiates.5) Yixingci 义兴祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20claims that there are 293 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9: the incense burners ofYongan zhongshê 永安中社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao, and palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods are taken on a tourof inspection of the village boundaries. On 1/10–11, the incense burners ofYongan shangshê 永安上社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao, and palm sedan chairs of the gods are taken on a tour ofinspection of the village boundaries. On 1/12 the village celebrates a generalYuanxiao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, andlanterns are taken on a procession around the village.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera isperformed, and divination blocks are cast to determine the date of aprocession of the god through the Lantian eighteen village alliance.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera isperformed.8/15: The birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 andthe Houtu furen 后土夫人 of both the Yongan shangshê 永安上社and the Yongan zhongshê 中社. Opera is peformed, and the two shêtogether celebrated the autumn rites 做秋.10/23: The birthday celebration of Lieqiao daren 烈窍大人. Opera is performed and a single Daoist master is invited to conduct rituals.
