V199 Guanpu 官埔1. Village settlement Guanpu is part of the Xiazheng AdministrativeVillage 下郑行政村. The population of Guanpu village is approximately 1500people. The village is divided into three parts, the Huang 黄, the DonghuChenshê 东湖陈 and the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and theHuang 黄.3. Village temples 1) Xingangong 兴安宫 contains the altar of theAnning dongshe 安宁东社 which belongs to the Huang 黄. The main godsare Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Wangfu Wangjiangjun 王府王将军and Hongmian Bai daren 红面白大人.2) Taipingfu 太平府 contains the altar of the Anning dongshê 安宁东社which belongs to the Donghu Chen 东湖陈氏. The main gods are Tiangongyuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.3) Anning dongshê 安宁东社 belongs to the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏. Themain gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu天上圣母.4) Qingyun shuyuan 卿云书院 belongs to the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏. Themain god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The secondary god is Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君.5) Wuhuci 五湖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondarygods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the Huang 黄 and the KuokouChen 阔口陈氏 take turns inviting the incense burners from their shê altarsto each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8 the Huang 黄invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on a tour of inspection around theborders 绕境巡游 while the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏 invite Yanggong taishi杨公太师 to do the same. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/15 theDonghu Chen 东湖陈 invite the incense burners from their shê altar to eachhousehold to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 the Donghu Chen东湖陈 invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on a tour of inspectionprocession around the village borders. The old Fushou 福首 hand the incenseburners over to the new Fushou.Birthday celebrations of the gods7/16:The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is peformed,and the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds areraised on a per capita basis.8/19:The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 is organized by the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈. Operais performed.8/28:The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 is organized by the Kuokou 阔口 Chen 陈. Opera isperformed.10/19–20: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance areperformed. Marionettes perform the Mulian 目连 plays. A singleDaoist master from Danjing 丹井 village is invited to recite scriptures. This is organized by the Donghu Chen 东湖陈.
