V200 Xiazheng 下郑1. Village settlement Xiazheng village is also known as Xiacheng 霞城.Xiazheng is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. Thecurrent population is approximately 4000 people.2. Surname groups The two main surname groups are the Lin 林 and theXin 辛. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Guo 郭 and the Zheng 郑.3. Village temples 1) Xiachengjing Anning zhongshê 霞城境安宁中社was repaired in Jiaqing 3 (1798). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tianshangshengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Guoleshenghou 果乐圣侯, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈圣侯 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士.2) Jingtangong 经坛宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Magongtaishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师.3) Juxingyuan 聚星院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Othergods worshipped are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君.4) Longdetang 隆德堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,1992:20 claims that there are 237 initiates.6) Yuhuci 玉壶祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14claims that there are 308 initiates.7) Kangjiting Buddhist pagoda 康济亭 was rebuilt in the early Republicanperiod. (PTZJZ, 1992:201)4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5–9 each surname groups takesturns to invite the incense burners to their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10 the entire village hold a general Yuanxiao and a lantern procession, and invites Daoist ritual masters to hold a jiao ritual 做醮.On 1/19 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 goes on a procession through Xiazheng下郑, Shangxin 上辛, and Guanpu 官埔 villages.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师7/16: The feast day of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.10/15: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters or Three inOne scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organizedby the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis.
