V215 Houhuang 后黄1. Village settlement Houhuang is part of the Daqiu AdministrativeVillage 大丘行政村. There are over 1000 people living in Houhuang village.The village is divided into four neighborhoods, known as Qiancuo 前厝,Xiacuo 下厝, Cuohou 厝后 and Xiating 下厅.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Weng 翁, the Song宋, the Huang 黄, and the Lin 林. The Weng are the major surname group.3. Village temples 1) Yujinggong 玉晶宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi杨公太师. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yangjiuniang 杨九娘.2) Yikeng dongshê 义坑东社 was repaired in 1998. The temple is dedicatedto Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondarygods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Dutianyuanshuai 都天元帅 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.3) Wanshoutang 万寿坛 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Thesecondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufufuren 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.4) Cifuan 慈福庵 was originally a Buddhist nunnery. Now it is a shrine tothe memory of Yagu 得道亚姑, a nun who attained nirvana there. The maingods worshipped are Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝.5) Zhenfengci 镇峰祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6–7 Qiancuo 前厝 take the incenseburners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice theDao. On 1/8, Cuohou 厝后 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visiteach household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/9, Xiacuo 下厝 takethe incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道practice the Dao. On 1/10, Xiating 下厅 and Qiancuo 前厝 take the incenseburners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practicethe Dao. On 1/20–21 the whole village celebrates a general Yuanxiao, andinvites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 together with the incense burners of thetemple to go on a tour of inspection procession around the boundaries ofthe village. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters are invitedto conduct rituals.Birthday celebrations of the gods2/8: The initial offering 首供 is held, and marionette plays are performed.4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed.5/14: The celebration of Buddhist nun Yagu is held 亚姑 and opera isperformed.7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held and opera is performed.9/9: The celebration of Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 is held and opera is performed.12/8: The closing offering 尾供 is held, and marionette plays are performed.
