V216 Houjing 后井1. Village settlement Houjing village is part of the Dingshê Administrative Village 顶社行政村. The current population is over 900 people. The village is divided into two parts, the Tangyuan shangshê 塘源上社 and theTangyuan dongshê 塘源东社. Each year each shê selects four Fushou 福首each.2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Xu 许, the Liu刘 and the Chen 陈.3. Village temples 1) Tangyuan shangshê 塘源上社 includes the Baiyudong 白玉洞. The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Cijizhenjun 慈济真君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅,Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Fangyang dashi芳阳大使, Chen jinggu 陈靖姑, Du yuanshuai 度元帅, and Wei tianwang韦天王.2) Tangyuan dongshê 塘源东社 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝,with Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggongshengjun 张公圣君 as secondary gods.3) Qingjingtang 清镜堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondarygods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the members of the Dongshê东社 take the incense burners of the temple to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then go on a procession around their territory. On 1/23–24, the members of the Shangshê 上社 first go to the Dongshêto worship 东社, and then take the incense burners of that temple (and theirown) to each household in its territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, andthen goes on a procession around its own boundaries.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by theDongshê 东社. Opera is performed.4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by theShangshê 上社. Opera is performed.7/16: The celebraiton of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Qingjingtang 清镜堂. Opera is performed.9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 is organized by the Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed.9/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. Opera is performed.
