V221 Beipu 北埔1. Village settlement Beipu is part of the Beipu Administrative Village北埔行政村. The village of Beipu currently has over 3000 people. The villageis divided into several neighborhoods that are called the qijiali 七甲里. Theneighborhoods are Tucheng 土埕, Beipu 北埔, Nanpu 南埔, Yaocuo 瑶厝,Tiancuo 田厝, Yuanwei 园尾, Houcaiyuan 后菜园, Xitianwei 西天尾, andXiaqiaotou 下桥头.2. Surname groups There are many surnames represented in Beipu. TheLin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Shi 施 are the major surname groups. Thereare also the Weng 翁, the Chao 赵, the Xie 谢, the Wu 吴, the Zheng 郑, theGuo 郭, and the Liang 梁.3. Village temples 1) Fengshangong 凤山宫 is in Tucheng 土埕 and isthe main overall temple of the seven jia neighborhoods 七甲总宫. It is runby a unified temple management committee. The main gods is Guangzezunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母,Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Taishan dage 泰山大哥, Yang daren 杨大人 and Lin daren 林大人.2) Mingjingtang 明镜堂 includes the Wenming shushê 文明书社 and is thefounding shê altar of the seven neighborhood alliance 七甲祖社. It too is runby a unified temple committee. The temple is in Beipu 北埔. The main godsare Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun魁斗星君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa迦蓝菩萨, and Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims thatthere are 220 initiates.3) Fengshanfu 凤山府 is in Houcaiyuan 后菜园 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshua 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wang daren 王大人, Jindaren 金大人, Lei daren 雷大人, and Ma daren 马大人.4) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞 is in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Guanyin dashi观音大士. The secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Dage 大哥.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 each household goes to theWenming shushê 文明书社 to worship. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/22 Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried on a tour of inspection processionaround the entire region. This event is organized by the temple managementcommittee.Birthday celebrations of the gods2/22: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by theFengshangong 凤山宫 which sponsors marionette plays. Opera issponsored by Xitianwei 西天尾, Yaocuo 瑶厝 and Xiaqiaotou 下桥头 neighborhoods seperately. Each time that a year has an intercalarysecond lunar month the god goes on a procession through the entireregion.2/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by theRuiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsor marionette plays.3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by theFengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays.5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is organized by theFengshangong凤山宫. Opera is performed.6/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by theRuiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsor marionette plays.8/22: The celebration for Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by theFengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. Opera performances are organized seperately by Tucheng 土埕, Tiancuo 田厝 andYuanwei 园尾 neighborhoods. Each year in which there is an eighthintercalary lunar month, the god goes on a procession through theentire region.9/13: The celebration for Yang daren 杨大人 and Lin daren 林大人 is organized by Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays.9/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsors opera.10/12: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 下元普度 are organized by the Mingjingtang 明镜堂, which sponsor marionette plays.11/25: The celebration for Taishan dage 泰山大哥 is organized by theRuiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsors operatic performances.
