V235 Xucuo 徐厝1. Village settlement Xucuo is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行政村. Xucuo village ncludes the former Tiancen village 田岑村. The population is approximately 700 people.2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 徐 (divided intothe front branch and back branch).3. Village temples 1) Chengshangong 城山宫 contains both the Yongjuxishê 永居西社 and the Tiancenshê 田岑社: The main gods are Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王,and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, andFude zhengshen 福德正神.2) Yushan shuyuan 玉山书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.3) Wanshunting 万顺亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the front branch of the Xu 徐surname group invites all the gods of Chengshangong 城山宫 and Yongjuzhongshê 永居中社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The eventis organized by the Xu front branch, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis. On 1/19, the back branch of the Xu surname group invites all the godsof the Chengshangong temple 城山宫 and the Tiancenshê 田岑社 to go onprocession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual mastersare invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the Xu back branch,and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 (beginninggood fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual mastersare invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together,and funds are collected on a per capita basis.Birthday celebrations of the gods1/15: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军.2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.4/14: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅.5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士.7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人.10/16: Pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 普度.12/24: Send off the gods 送神.On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invitedto conduct rites. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and fundsare collected on a per capita basis.
