V253 Xishan 西山1. Village settlement The population of Xishan village is approximately400 people.2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xie 谢 and theLin 林.3. Village temples 1) Xishangong 西山宫 contains the altar of the Yongjushushê 永居书社: This is the main temple for the villages of Bitou 泌头,Shandou 山兜, and Xishan 西山. It was built during the early Qing Dynasty.The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人,Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chifeng jiedushi 敕封节度使, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. Secondary gods includeLufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈.2) Tianhougong 天后宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社:The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人,and Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母.3) Sanqingci 三清祠: The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君,Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. The SJCDCB,1992:21 claims that there are 150 initiates.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Xishan西山 village as well as the villages of Bitou 泌头 and Shandou 山兜. Opera isperformed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This eventis organized by Xishangong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis. On 1/17 the Xie 谢 surname group invites all the gods of Sanqingci三清祠 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 to go on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conductrituals. This event is organized by the Xie 谢 surname group, and funds arecollected on a per capita basis within the lineage. On 1/18 the Lin 林 surname group invites all the gods of Tianhougong 天后宫 and Yongju shushê永居书社 to go on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organizedby the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basiswithin the lineage.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母, organizedby the the village as a whole.9/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人is organized by the Xie 谢.10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is organized by the Lin 林.On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters areinvited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis by theorganizing group.
