V277 Xintang 新塘1. Village settlement Xintang was originally called Shentang 沈塘, and ispart of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. The population ofthe Xintang village is approximately 1800 people. Apart from agriculture,the livelihood of the entire village comes from some cash crops. Some villagers also work as bricklayers, carpenters and casual workers during the idleperiods of agriculture.2. Surname groups The Cai 蔡 makes up 80–90% of the population ofthe entire village. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Huang 黄, Lin 林,and Chen 陈. The Cai 蔡 moved from the Lingchuan 灵川. Their ancestraltombs are located in Fengting 枫亭 in Xianyou 仙游. The Cai are dividedinto two branches, the Weicuo branch 尾厝 and the fourth branch 四房.The fourth branch has approximately 1000 people. The Cai of Dongcai inLingquan township 灵川东蔡 have a lineage genealogy.3. Village temples 1) Gutang dongshê 古塘东社 is dedicated to Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god isXuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.2) Pumingtang 普明堂 was originally named Xintangan 新塘庵. This templeis the Shuikoumiao 水口庙 of the thirty-six village alliance 三十六乡. Builtduring the Song Chunyou period (1241–52), it was renovated in the Qing inGuangxu 22 (1896). The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondarygods include the Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士.3) Shanfa’an Buddhist nunnery 善发庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:221)4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the gods of Gutang dongshê 古塘东社 are taken on a procession through the village. Three Daoistritual masters 师公 conduct a jiao 做醮. Lanterns go on procession aroundthe boundaries of the village. Four organizers are selected each year. On 2/ 2,Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The six gods of Mingshangong 名山宫 are invitedto go on procession through the village.Birthday celebrations of the gods3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian Shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days.10/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and HoutuFuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days.11/9: The birthday celebration of Mingshanwang 名山王 and the gods mentioned above. Opera is performed for two days.On a day either in the 10th or 11th lunar month, marionette plays of Mulianopera 目莲戏 are performed.
