V278 Gouwei village 沟尾1. Village settlement Gouwei natural village is part of the GouweiAdministrative Village 沟尾行政村. The entire village has a population of1300 people. The livelihoods are similar to those of Xintang 新塘.2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnamesinclude the Zhang 张, Yang 杨, and Peng 彭. The Chen have approximately1200 people, and belong to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. The Chen hasreached the 15th generation. The Chen is divided into five branches, whichare the first branch, second branch, third branch, fourth branch and the fifthbranch. The first branch has the most people, with more than 700 people.There is a Chen ancestral hall, which is now used as the opera house. Thereis a lineage genealogy (the same as the one in Kuokou 阔口).3. Village temples 1) Jumingtang 聚明堂: Main god: Lubu xiangong 鲁部相公, Lubu furen 鲁部夫人. Secondary gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Pufatianzun 普法天尊, Shangdiye 上帝爷, Wenye 温爷, Xuantan gong 玄坛公,and Huangxuan yuanshuai 黄玄元帅.2) Baofu xishê 保福西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王,Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutianyuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai张公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.3) Heyitang 合一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary godsare Guandiye 关帝爷, and Xuantangong 玄坛公.4) Juxinting 聚新亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondarygods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽兰.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Kuangwang yuanshuai 匡王元帅, andHuanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of the Baofu xishê 保福西社 are taken onprocession. The Chen 陈 organize this event: four hosts (Fushou) and fourassistant host positions are rotated into each year according to age. Toufu头福 rites are held on 2/ 2 and opera is performed for two days.Birthday celebrations of the gods4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera.5/5: The celebration of Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公 is held with marionetteplays.7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with marionetteplays.7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionetteplays.8/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held.The god is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to the village to watchthe operas. Four or five Daoist ritual masters hold a jiao rite 做醮.The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held withtwo days of opera.10/24: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungryghosts are held and marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 areperformed. Three in One Scripture masters 经师 conduct (chaodu)超度 deliverance rites in groups of three.9/9:
