V290 Caicuo 菜厝1. Village settlement Caicuo village is part of Qicuo Administrative Village歧厝行政村. Caicuo is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangcai 上菜 andXiacai 下菜. There are approximately 800 people living in the village.2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group.3. Village temples 1) Qilin xishê 麒麟西社 is connected to the Shanyingtang 善应堂. The temple was built in Kangxi 47 (1708). There is astone inscription dated Daoguang 15 (1835). The main gods are Zunzhumingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods includeZhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅.2) Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社 is connected to the Guanlanting 观澜亭: Themain gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士.4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Shangcai 上菜 takes the godsof Qilin xishê 麒麟西社 and Shanyingtang 善应堂 on a procession withinits territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited toconduct rituals. On 1/12, Xiacai 下菜 takes the gods of Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社 and Guanlanting 观澜亭 on a procession within its territory. Opera isperformed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Theseevents are organized by each shê as a whole, and funds are collected on aper capita basis.Birthday celebrations of the gods6/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Qilin xishê 麒麟西社. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events areorganized by Shangcai 上菜.6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Xiacai 下菜, and funds arecollected on a per capita basis.7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera isperformed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals.These events are organized by Shangcai 上菜, and funds are collectedon a per capita basis.11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社. Opera is performed, andDaoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events areorganized by Xiacai 下菜, and funds are collected on a per capitabasis.
