V297 Hengtang qijia (Hengtang seven jia ritual alliance) 横塘七甲Hengtang 横塘)1. Village settlement Hengtang was also called Hengqu 横渠 in the Tang.Hengtang is located in between the Shangxia 上下渠大沟 main channel andthe main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门前大沟 ofthe Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Hengtangpu (police/defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. In the Tang dynasty, the areaalready had a village called Hengtang, and the village currently has morethan 4000 people. In the local temple ritual system, they are divided according to lineage and settlement into seven jia ritual associations.In the Ming, Hengtang was famous for its examination graduates, andthe six lineages of the Peng 彭, Qiu 邱, Zhu 朱, Zhang 张, Lin 林, and Chen陈 of this village together produced eighteen Jinshi 进士 (MetropolitanGraduates) and thirty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Tianshu4 (1460) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorialarchway in honor of the Lin lineage 林. In Ming Chenghua 12 (1476) theFujian Provincial Administration Commissioner 福建布政使 set up a Xiuyi繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Qiu lineage 邱. There still survives a stele from Qianlong 59 (1794) inscribed with the words “Tangqingwujian 塘清武鉴”. The inscription reads further: “Tang yuanhe wuzi (808)Metropolitan Graduate and Editor in the Palace Library Zhang Shi 张实bequeathed land to build a hall. Song Taiping Tianguo xuyin (808) General of the Palace Army Zhang Songhui 张忪恢 expanded it; Song Shaoxingrenzi (1132) Grand Master for Closing Court Zhang Dounan 张斗南 rebuiltthe hall.” The stone inscription composed by Peng Peng 彭鹏 in Kangxi 30(1691), entitled 横塘彭氏宗祠春祀记 (Record of the Spring sacrifice at theHengtang Peng main ancestral hall), is about the Peng Ancestral hall of thisvillage (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:222, No. 192).In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the seven jia ritual associations of Hengtang were part of the white banner alliance.2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Hengtang now are theZhang 张, Huang 黄, and Zheng 郑. According to the survey data from 1993,there are 400 Zhang households, approximately forty Huang households,approximately forty Zheng households, six Chen 陈 households, four Wu吴 households, three Ruan 阮 households, one Zhu 朱 household and twoLin 林 households. The ancestor of the Zhang of Hengtang, Zhang Shigong张实公, is said to be the ancestor that migrated to Fujian. It is said that a
