V201 Shangxin 上辛 1. Village settlement Shangxin is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. There are approximately 550 people living in Shangxin village. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, namely the Xin 辛. 3. Village temples 1) Qinyuanjing Anning xishê 锦园境安宁西社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Xinxiaci 行夏祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 100 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/6 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 holds a tour of inspection procession around the boundaries of the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. 
V202 Zhengjing 郑井 1. Village settlement Zhengjing is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Zhengjing village. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Danjingjing Shuijingggong 丹井境水晶宫 contains the altar of the Fude dongshê 福德东社. The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong zhengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Miyunci 密云祠 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lixing daren 李大人 and Xiling (Wanlinggong) Kong daren 西岭 (万灵宫)孔大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to holds tour of inspection procession around the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of the Lantian Yongangong Xuantian shangdi 蓝田永安宫玄天上帝. The gods are invited to watch the opera performances. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Marionette plays are performed. 8/10: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V203 Xiaketang 下可塘 1. Village settlement Xiaketang is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. Xiaketang has a population of approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The Xu 许 are the main surname group. Each year in rotation they select four Fushou 福首 to direct ritual activities. 3. Village temples 1) Wanhegong 万和宫 contains the Anmin zushê 安民祖社 and was built in the Qing dynasty. The main gods are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kang yuanshuai 康公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Huoshen yuanshuai 火神元帅. 2) Wanshoutan 万寿坛 is dedicated to Huang Erdashen 黄二大神. The secondary gods are Li daye 六大爷 and Qi daye 七大爷. On 9/11–12 rites are performed for these gods. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Shenlingmiao 神灵庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Daye 大爷. 5) Dexiantang 德贤堂 is dedicated to Milefo 弥勒佛. 6) Xianguci 仙姑祠 is dedicated to Lin xiangu 林仙姑. Secondary gods are Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 7) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 193 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Fushou 福首 carry the shê altar incense burners and accompany Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 on a tour of inspection of the entire village. On 1/14 in the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/15 the gods and the incense burners are returned to the temple, and three Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/1: The birthday of Lin xiangu 林仙姑. Opera is performed. 9/12: The birthday of Huang er dashen 黄二大神. Opera is performed. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 10/15: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance are performed, and the village participates in the procession of the gods of Wufeng 五峰. 
V204 Shangketang 上可塘 1. Village settlement Shangketang Xiaketang is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The current population of Shangketang is over 900 people. 2. Surname groups The Liu 刘 are the dominant surname group. There are also Xu 徐, Zheng 郑, Fang 方, Xiao 肖, Zeng 曾, and Ou 欧 households in the village. The village is divided into two parts, the Liucuo 刘厝 and the Zacuo 杂厝 (mixed surname settlement). Each year each part selects two Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 contains the altar of the Anmin dongshê 安民东社 which belongs to Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Tiayi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Yonghegong 永和宫 contains the altar of the Anmin xishê 安民西社 which belongs to the Zacuo 杂厝 (mixed surname settlement). The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Tiayi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Yuetangci 月塘祠 belongs to Liucuo 刘厝, and the main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一先生. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4) Guanyintang 观音堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–8 the Zacuo (mixed surnames) 杂厝 carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 in palm sedan chairs 棕轿 on a tour of inspection around their own territory. Lanterns go on procession and five Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao rituals 做醮. On 1/8–9 the Liucuo 刘厝 carry Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 in palm sedan chairs on a tour of inspection around their own territory. Lanterns go on procession and five Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Liucuo 刘厝. Opera is performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Zacuo 杂厝. Opera is performed. 
V205 Dingxi 顶溪 1. Village settlement Dingxi was originally known as Chenxi 陈溪, and is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村 The current population of Dingxi is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 make up 80% of the village population. There are also Wei 魏 and Xu 徐 households. Each year a single Fushou 福首 is selected in rotation according to age. 3. Village temples Yongangong 永安宫 contains the altar of the Yonganshê 永安社. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshi 都天 元帅 and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–12 Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 are carried on a tour of inspection around the village. Lanterns go on procession and five Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each time the Xuantian shangdi of Lantian 蓝田 goes on procession, the god is received in the village temple. Opera is performed. 9/9: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V206 Laizhai 濑宅 1. Village settlement Laizhai was originally known as Luozhai 罗宅, and is part of the Laizhai Administrative Village 濑宅行政村. The population of Laizhai village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are two main surname groups, the Xu 许 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yucai shushê 育才书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jin zhongjun 金中军. 2) Xingjingong 兴进宫 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods are Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅 and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 3) Xingyundong 行云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. 4) Julinting 竹林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 101 initiates. 6) Xinyitang 心一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 200 initiates. 7) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 186 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–18, the shê altar incense burners and Jin zhongjun 金中军 are taken on a tour of inspection of the entire village. On 1/20 in the evening, there is a procession of linked lanterns. Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/1: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/10: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and the autumn rites are held 做秋. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. On all these occasions, opera is performed and rituals are conducted by Daoist masters or Three in One scripture masters. 
V207 Caomang 草莽 1. Village settlement Caomang is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The population of Caomang village is approximately 2600 people. The village is divided into four parts, each with its own shê temple: these are the Anfu 安福, Ande 安德, Xinxing 新兴, and Dinglin 顶林 neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The main two surname groups are the Liang 梁 and the Lin 林. There are also Chen 陈, Xiao 肖 and Cai 蔡 households. 3. Village temples 1) Wenminggong 文明宫 is the main temple of the entire village. The main god is Wu daren 乌大人. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一先生, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 2) Anfu shushê 安福书社 belongs to Xialin 下林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Andeshê 安德社 belongs to the Liang 梁. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xinxingshê 新兴社 belongs to the Chen 陈, the Xiao 肖 and the Cai 蔡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Anding shushê 安定书社 belongs to Dinglin 顶林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 Anding shushê 安定书社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/6 Anfu shushê 安福 书社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/7 Andeshê 安德社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/8 Xinxingshê 新兴社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. 6/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Wu daren 乌大人. Opera is performed. 10/26: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance are performed. 
V208 Sutang 苏塘 1. Village settlement Sutang is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The population of Sutang village is approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into three neighborhoods, Guocuo 郭厝, Xucuo 许厝, and Fangcuo 方厝. Each year three Fushou are selected, one by each neighborhood, by age. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭, the Xu 许, and the Fang 方 3. Village temples 1) Baihugong 白湖宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jin daren 金大人, Jiuniangma 九娘妈, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Baihu dongshê 白湖东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Jichengtang 集成堂 is a Three in One temple with over forty initiates. The temple preserves a Guangxu 4 (1878) stele. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchan dijun 文昌帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Jinyu chilin 金玉 齿临, Tianshen diqi 天神地祗. 4) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the incense burners of the shê temple are invited on a tour of inspection around the entire village. At night there is a procession of linked lanterns. Opera is performed. On 1/11 Tianshang shengmu 天上妈祖, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wu daren 乌大人, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited out of the temple to receive worship and to have gifts of cash tied around their necks 挂颈. Daoist ritual masters arer invited to hold a spring jiao ritual 春醮. On 1/12 the old Fushou 福首 hand over the incense burners to the new Fushou. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed and three Three in One scripture masters conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. 8/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Marionette plays are performed. 8/25: Rites are held to welcome the autumn season 做秋, and opera is performed. 9/19: The feastday of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 
V209 Xinxu 新徐 1. Village settlement Xinxu is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The population of Xinxu village is just over 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 are the dominant surname group. There are also some Liu 刘 and Lin 林 households. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxujing Mingfeng wangfu 新徐境明凤王府: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅. Secondary gods are Kong daren 孔大人, Zhu yuanshuai 朱元帅 and Chen xiannü 陈仙女. 2) Anning xinshê 安宁新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Qingyuandong 清源洞 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the incense burners of the shêaltar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held, and opera is performed 
V210 Jiuxu 旧徐 1. Village settlement Jiuxu is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The current population of Jiuxu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Jiuxujing Guanhugong 旧徐境官湖宫 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. 2) Donglaiting 东来亭 was repaired in Jiaqing 4 (1799). The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. In the 9th lunar month on the birthday of the goddess marionette plays are performed. 3) Anning zushê 安宁祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the incense burners of the shêaltar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 9/7: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Opera is performed. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 
V211 Mubing 墓柄 1. Village settlement Mubing village is also known as Wenbing 文柄. Mubing is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The current population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zhang 张 and the Wu 吴. Each year the Zhang select two Fushou by rotation based on age while the Wu 吴 select one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Wenfenggong 文峰宫 contains the altar of Anningshê 安宁社: The main gods are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. 2) Wenxiatang 文夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天元帅, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–14 the incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evenings there are processions of linked lanterns. All the gods of the shê, led by Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 are carried out in eight small palm sedan chairs for a tour of inspection of the entire village. On 2/1 the ritual of beginning good fortune toufu 头福 is held, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed. 8/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Marionette plays are performed. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Opera is performed for two or three days, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. 
V212 Shidou 石兜 1. Village settlement Shidou is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村.The current population of Shidou village is 154 people. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Dai 戴. 3. Village temples Anshigong 安石社 is within the Chongxinggong 重兴宫. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed. 
A051 六甲 Hushi sanshiliujia (Hushi thirty-six jia ritual alliance) 笏石三十 Hushi 笏石 was originally known as Qishi 跂石 and is located on the southern edge of the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing, this entire area was considered out of bounds 界外, and was forcibly evacuated. This area originally belonged to the Hushipu 笏石铺 (police/defense unit) of Hepuli 合浦里. In the Ming the village of Qishi 跂石村 was already settled here, and in the Qing the following villages separated out: Dagui 大龟, Linbing 林炳, Houjing 后井, Houhuang 后黄, Chencuo 陈厝, Wucuo 吴厝. From the end of the coastal evacuations onwards, Hushi developed into the central town of the “region beyond the borders”, and it currently is the site of the Xiuyu Bay Regional Government 秀屿区政府, but most of the residents live in the streets and lanes of Hushi township. Hushi originally was an agricultural market town with a fairly regular settlement pattern. Currently Hushi is managed by three Administrative Villages: Daqiu 大丘, Dingshe 顶社 and Beipu 北埔行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to the traditional settlements into thirty-six jia ritual association 三十六甲. The Jurengong 聚仁宫 temple, located in Chencuo 陈厝 village, is the main overall temple of the thirty-six village ritual alliance and dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Formerly, the god would go on procession around the entire alliance on irregular occasions. The temple is known as the Pugong 铺宫 (main temple of the Pu police/defense unit). Currently the thirty-six village alliance of Hushi has divided up into three different ritual alliances, each based in a different main temple. These temples are the Jurengong 聚仁宫 of Chencuo 陈厝, the Shengrengong 圣仁宫of Dingcuo 顶厝, and the Fengshangong 凤山宫of Beipu 北埔. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the thirty-six village alliance of Huxhi was part of the black banner alliance. 
V213 Chencuo 陈厝 1. Village settlement Chencuo is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. The current population of Chencuo village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑, the Su 苏, and the Lin 林. Each year each group selects by rotation one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples Jurengong 聚仁宫 was built in Kangxi 54 (1715) and demolished in 1958. In 1980 it was rebuilt, and is now the main overall Pugong 铺宫 temple of the thirty-six village alliance of Hushi. Currently, representatives from each of the thirty-six villages still sit on the temple management The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wang lingguan 王灵官, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Hutiangong 壶天宫 has already been torn down, but the gods are kept in the home of the Fushou 福首. The main gods are Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 are invited to go on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and the celebration is organized by the management committee of the Jurengong 聚仁宫. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wanglingguan 王灵宫. Opera is performed, and the celebration is organized by the management committee of the Jurengong 聚仁宫. 
V214 Wucuo 吴厝 1. Village settlement Wucuo is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. The current population of Wucuo village is approximately 1360 people. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Wu 吴. Each year by rotation according to age four Fushou 福首 are selected. 3. Village temples 1) Yanfushê 延福社 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗. 2) Aolonggong 鳌龙宫 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯 and Fenghuo ertong 风火二童. 3) Zishan shuyuan 紫山书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 with Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 as a secondary god. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 the incense burners of the temple, along with Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Zhanghong shengjun 张公圣君, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 go on a tour of inspection of the entire village. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Formerly, on 1/23 Sima shengwang 司马圣王 would go on procession not only through Wucuo village on this day, but also to Daqiu 大丘, Linbing 林柄, Houhuang 后黄, Houjing 后井, Tucheng 土埕 and Fulushan 福禄山 villages. This tradition has not been revived. Birthday celebrations: 5/13: The celebration for Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed. 7/21: The celebration for Zhanggong shengwang 张公圣君. Opera is performed. 8/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V215 Houhuang 后黄 1. Village settlement Houhuang is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. There are over 1000 people living in Houhuang village. The village is divided into four neighborhoods, known as Qiancuo 前厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Cuohou 厝后 and Xiating 下厅. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Weng 翁, the Song 宋, the Huang 黄, and the Lin 林. The Weng are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yujinggong 玉晶宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Yikeng dongshê 义坑东社 was repaired in 1998. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Wanshoutang 万寿坛 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Cifuan 慈福庵 was originally a Buddhist nunnery. Now it is a shrine to the memory of Yagu 得道亚姑, a nun who attained nirvana there. The main gods worshipped are Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Zhenfengci 镇峰祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6–7 Qiancuo 前厝 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8, Cuohou 厝后 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/9, Xiacuo 下厝 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10, Xiating 下厅 and Qiancuo 前厝 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/20–21 the whole village celebrates a general Yuanxiao, and invites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 together with the incense burners of the temple to go on a tour of inspection procession around the boundaries of the village. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The initial offering 首供 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. 5/14: The celebration of Buddhist nun Yagu is held 亚姑 and opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held and opera is performed. 9/9: The celebration of Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 is held and opera is performed. 12/8: The closing offering 尾供 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 
V216 Houjing 后井 1. Village settlement Houjing village is part of the Dingshê Administrative Village 顶社行政村. The current population is over 900 people. The village is divided into two parts, the Tangyuan shangshê 塘源上社 and the Tangyuan dongshê 塘源东社. Each year each shê selects four Fushou 福首 each. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Xu 许, the Liu 刘 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Tangyuan shangshê 塘源上社 includes the Baiyudong 白玉洞. The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Fangyang dashi 芳阳大使, Chen jinggu 陈靖姑, Du yuanshuai 度元帅, and Wei tianwang 韦天王. 2) Tangyuan dongshê 塘源东社 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, with Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 as secondary gods. 3) Qingjingtang 清镜堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the members of the Dongshê 东社 take the incense burners of the temple to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then go on a procession around their territory. On 1/23–24, the members of the Shangshê 上社 first go to the Dongshê to worship 东社, and then take the incense burners of that temple (and their own) to each household in its territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then goes on a procession around its own boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebraiton of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Qingjingtang 清镜堂. Opera is performed. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed. 9/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. Opera is performed. 
V217 Daqiu 大丘 1. Village settlement Daqiu village was originally called Dagui 大龟. Daqiu is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. Currently the population is over 2600 people, living in over 480 households. The village is divided into four shê, namely the Fulin taishê 福霖泰社, the Dongshê 东社, the Shangshê 上社, and the Xinshê 新社. Each year each shê selects by rotation two Fushou 福首. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname group in the village, the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Baihugong 白湖宫 (also known as the Taishifu 太师府) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯. 2) Fulinshê 福霖社 (and the various shê altars inside the temple, namely the Fulin taishê 福霖太社, the Dongshê 东社 and the Shangshê 上社) all are dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Fulin xinshê 福霖新社 is in Houdaqiu 后大丘. The temple is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Fozu 佛祖. 4) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huang Er dajiang 黄二 大使, Heiyun daren 黑云大人, and Cai Asan 蔡阿三. 5) Wanfutan 万福坛 was originally a tomb for unknown soldiers during the Qing coastal evacuaton. Currently there is a stele commemorating the reconstruction of the temple and the tomb. The main god is Dizang renshi 地藏仁师. Secondary gods are Huanger dashen 黄二大神, Wang yushi 汪御史, Lin zhongjun 林中军, Dage 大哥, Erge 二哥, Jiu shugong 九叔公 and Qiye 七爷. 6) Hansantang 函三堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 7) Qingshuian Buddhist nunnery 清水庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:226). 8) Jushantang Buddhist hall 聚善堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:226). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Fulin taishê 福霖泰社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each member household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Fulin dongshê 福霖东社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Fulin xinshê 福霖新社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 Fulin shangshê 福霖上社 takes the incense burners of the temple to its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 a general Yuanxiao festival is held and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯 of Baihugong 白湖宫 go on a procession throughout Daqiu village and then on to Fulushan 福禄山 village. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The beginning good fortune 头福 festival. Opera is performed. 4/9: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. 8/15: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 9/12: The celebration for Huang er daren 黄二大人. Opera is performed. 10/12: The celebration for Heiyun daren 黑云大人. Opera is performed. 
V218 Fulushan 福禄山 1. Village settlement Fulushan village is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village region 大丘行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into two sections, the Dingfang 顶房 and the Xiafang 下房. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Mingdeci 明德祠 includes the Wanxintang 万兴堂 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Huanger daren 黄二大人. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the Xiafang 下房 area of the village participates in the xingdao 行道 (practising the Dao) procession of Fulin taishê 福霖太社 from the neighbouring village of Daqiu 大丘. On 1/12 the Dingfang 顶房 area of the village participates in the xingdao 行道 (practising the Dao) procession of Fulin dongshê 福霖东社 from the neighbour ing village of Daqiu 大丘. On 1/15 the entire village 全村 participates in the procession of the Daqiu village Baihugong 大丘白湖宫. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. 8/8: Daoist masters are invited to perform a Bao’anjiao 保安醮. Opera is performed. 10/29: The rites of Universal Deliverance of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 are performed. 
V219 Linbing 林柄 1. Village settlement Linbing belongs to Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. The current population of Linbing village is over 260 people. 2. Surname groups There are three main surname groups in the village, the Cai 蔡, Peng 彭, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Fuchenggong 福诚宫 is dedicated to Dawang zungong 大王尊公. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengjun 司马圣王, Wu zhongjun 吴中军, Li Boye 李伯爷, Huang Boye 黄伯爷, Taishan Liu dage 泰山刘大哥, Shi siye 石四爷, Chen Boye 陈伯爷, Zhang Boye 张伯爷 and Li zhongjun 李中军. 2) Xinxingshê 新兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Qingruitang Buddhist hall 清瑞堂 was built in Guangxu 6 (1880). (PTZJZ, 1992:207) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 each household goes to the village temple to worship. On 1/20 in the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/15: The autumn rites are held 做秋 and marionette plays are performed. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V220 Dingshê 顶社 1. Village settlement Dingshê is part of the Dingshê Administrative Village 顶社行政村. The current population is over 5000 people. The village is divided into various neighborhoods including Dingshê 顶社, Xiashê 下社, Tawei 塔尾, Louxia 楼下, Xiajie 下街 etc., 2. Surname groups The Zhan 占 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. In addition, there are the Zheng 郑, the Zhou 周 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Shengrengong 圣仁宫 is also known as Hushigong 笏石宫 or DingShêgong 顶社宫. This temple divided off from Chencuo Jurengong 陈厝聚仁宫 in the Qing dynasty. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Hushan dongshê 笏山东社 is in Tawei 塔尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Hushan xishê 笏山西社 is in Xiashê 下社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4) Mingshanci 明山祠 is in Dingshê 顶社. There are currently fifteen initiates 门人. The main god worshipped is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Mile zunfo 弥勒尊佛, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Huang daxiong 黄大兄. 5) Qingyundong 清云洞 is in Dingshê 顶社 and is dedicated to Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. The secondary gods are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang erdaren 黄二大人, Baihua xiannü 白花仙女, Baihua xiaojie 白花小姐, Zhang jiangjun 张将军, Huang dashen 黄大神, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 6) Zhiyuanting 志元亭 is in Xiashê 下社. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 7) Wangyuanmiao 万元庙 is in Xiajie 下街. The main god is Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. Secondary gods are Yang daren 杨大人, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 8) Huiyundong 惠云洞 is in Xiajie 下街. The main god is Langong yuanshuai 蓝公元帅. Secondary gods are Zhou jiangjun 周将军 and Chen jiangjun 陈将军. 9) Shanxing Buddhist temple 善兴寺. (PTZJZ, 1992:227) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Hushan dongshê 笏山东社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/13 Hushan xishê 笏山西社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/24 the gods of Shengrengong 圣仁宫 are invited to go on a tour of inspection procession through Dingshê 顶社, Xiashê 下社, Tawei 塔尾, Louxia 楼下, Xiajie 下街, Houjing 后井, Bajin 坝津, Beipu 北埔 and other villages. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Zhiyuanting 志元亭. Marionette plays are performed. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 6/12: The celebration of Huang erdaren 黄二大人 is organized by the Qingyundong 清云洞. Marionette plays are performed. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Zhiyuanting 志元亭. Marionette plays are performed. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 is organized by the Qingyundong 清云洞. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Mingshanci 明山祠. Opera is performed. 9/15: The celebration of Xiling Kong daren 西岭孔大人 is organized by Wanyuanmiao 万元庙. Opera is performed. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Zhiyuanting 志元亭. Marionette plays are performed. 10/25: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Mulian 目连戏 marionette plays are performed. This event is organized by the Mingshanci 明山祠. 
V221 Beipu 北埔 1. Village settlement Beipu is part of the Beipu Administrative Village 北埔行政村. The village of Beipu currently has over 3000 people. The village is divided into several neighborhoods that are called the qijiali 七甲里. The neighborhoods are Tucheng 土埕, Beipu 北埔, Nanpu 南埔, Yaocuo 瑶厝, Tiancuo 田厝, Yuanwei 园尾, Houcaiyuan 后菜园, Xitianwei 西天尾, and Xiaqiaotou 下桥头. 2. Surname groups There are many surnames represented in Beipu. The Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Shi 施 are the major surname groups. There are also the Weng 翁, the Chao 赵, the Xie 谢, the Wu 吴, the Zheng 郑, the Guo 郭, and the Liang 梁. 3. Village temples 1) Fengshangong 凤山宫 is in Tucheng 土埕 and is the main overall temple of the seven jia neighborhoods 七甲总宫. It is run by a unified temple management committee. The main gods is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Taishan dage 泰山 大哥, Yang daren 杨大人 and Lin daren 林大人. 2) Mingjingtang 明镜堂 includes the Wenming shushê 文明书社 and is the founding shê altar of the seven neighborhood alliance 七甲祖社. It too is run by a unified temple committee. The temple is in Beipu 北埔. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨, and Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 220 initiates. 3) Fengshanfu 凤山府 is in Houcaiyuan 后菜园 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshua 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wang daren 王大人, Jin daren 金大人, Lei daren 雷大人, and Ma daren 马大人. 4) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞 is in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 each household goes to the Wenming shushê 文明书社 to worship. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/22 Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried on a tour of inspection procession around the entire region. This event is organized by the temple management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Fengshangong 凤山宫 which sponsors marionette plays. Opera is sponsored by Xitianwei 西天尾, Yaocuo 瑶厝 and Xiaqiaotou 下桥 头 neighborhoods seperately. Each time that a year has an intercalary second lunar month the god goes on a procession through the entire region. 2/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsor marionette plays. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is organized by the Fengshangong凤山宫. Opera is performed. 6/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsor marionette plays. 8/22: The celebration for Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. Opera performances are organized seperately by Tucheng 土埕, Tiancuo 田厝 and Yuanwei 园尾 neighborhoods. Each year in which there is an eighth intercalary lunar month, the god goes on a procession through the entire region. 9/13: The celebration for Yang daren 杨大人 and Lin daren 林大人 is organized by Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. 9/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsors opera. 10/12: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 下元普度 are organized by the Mingjingtang 明镜堂, which sponsor marionette plays. 11/25: The celebration for Taishan dage 泰山大哥 is organized by the Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsors operatic performances. 
A052 Hushu xiashisixiang (Hushi lower fourteen village ritual alliance) 笏石下十四乡 The Hushi lower fourteen village ritual alliance is located on the southern side of the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing this area was made out of bounds 界外, and these villages were forcibly evacuated. This area originally was part of the Babianpu (police/defense unit) 坝边铺 and the Dongfeng qingguangpu 东峰青光铺 of the Guoqingli sub-canton 国清里. In the Ming, the village of Dongjin 东津村 was already in the area, and in the mid Qing, the fourteen villages took shape, including Babian 坝边, Cangdian 苍店, Lincuozi 林厝仔, Huanglin 黄林, and Xizhuo 西卓. In the late Qing, the following villages separated off: Tianyang 田洋, Xiadian 下店, Yuntang 云塘, Dongzhuo 东卓, Kengwei 坑尾, Jiucheng 旧埕 and Shanding 山顶. The area currently has over 6000 people, all of whom are managed by the Bajin Administrative Village 坝津行政村. The Chaoyunge 潮云阁 temple of Cangdian village 苍店 is the main temple of the lower fourteen village alliance. It is known as a Pugong 铺宫, or the temple of the police/defense unit which administered all these villages in the Qing. The main gods are Yuan (Xuan)tian shangdi 元天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Confucius 孔子. Each year there is an intercalary lunar sixth month, the Guanyin dashi of Chaoyunge 潮云 阁 temple is carried on a procession to all the villages of the ritual alliance. This event is organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of each of the fourteen villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the fourteen villages of the Hushi lower alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V222 Shangbabian 上坝边 1. Village settlement The population of Shangbabian village is approximately 500 people. Hushi lower fourteen village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangshangong 象山宫 contains the altar of Yongan xishê 永安西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 lanterns are carried in a procession around the village territory. On 1/13 all the gods of Xiangshangong 象山宫 and Yongan xishê 永安西社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V223 Xiababian 下坝边 1. Village settlement The population of Xiababian village is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangshangong 象山宫, Yongan dongshê 永安 东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Damafu 大妈府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Weibinting 渭滨亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, lanterns are carried in a procession around its territory. On 1/12, all the gods of Xiangshangong 象山宫 and Yongan dongshê 永安东社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On all these occasions, the entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed. 5/15: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/18: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 12/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V224 Tianyang 田洋 1. Village settlement The village of Tianyang has a population of over 300 people. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname group in the village, the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Yujingshê 玉井社 contains the Baiyundong 白云洞. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then a procession is held around the village boundaries. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao 醮 ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is marked with five days of opera. 
V225 Cangdian 苍店 1. Village settlement The population of Cangdian village is approximately 650 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 许. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Chaoyunge 潮云阁, Guanyinting 观音亭, Buyunge 步云阁: the main temple (Pugong 铺宫) for the lower fourteen village alliance. The main gods are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kongzi 孔子. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 迦蓝. Every year early in the 6th lunar month, Guanyin dashi of Chaoyunge goes on procession around the lower fourteen village alliance. 2) Xingxiangong 兴贤宫, Fuanshê 福安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugu shenjun 五谷神君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Mingshan dishi 名山帝师, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Wei sheren 魏舍人, Jin sheren 金舍人, and Jingdu erjiang 京都二将. 3) Songyunmiao 松云庙: The main gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Taishan Daxiong 泰山大兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 all the gods of Xingxiangong 兴贤宫 and Fuanshê 福安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/15: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Chaoyunge 潮云阁, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette plays are performed. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenjun 五谷神君. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. This ritual is organized by Chaoyunge 潮云阁, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 6/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyindashi 观音大士 is organized by Chaoyunge 潮云阁, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 11/8: The birthday celebration of Mingshan dishi 名山帝师. 11/19: The birthday celebration of Wu jiangjun 吴将军. On all the above occasions, unless otherwise specificed, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together (with the exception of certain rites organized by the Chaoyunge), and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V226 Xiadian 下店 1. Village settlement The population of Xiadian village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Guo 郭. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Qishangong 棋山宫, Yonganshê 永安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Fengyangci 凤阳祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 230 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–18 all the gods of Qishangong 棋山宫 and Yonganshê 永安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V227 Lincuo 林厝 1. Village settlement The population of Lincuo village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, and Guo 郭. 3. Village temples 1) Longshangong 龙山宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Yongan minshê 永安民社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Qionglinci 琼林祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 190 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 all the gods of Longshangong 龙山宫 and Yongan minshê 永安民社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these two occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The rites of Universal Deliverance of the day of Lower Prime 下元 普度 are performed by Three in One Scripture Masters. This is organized by Qionglinci 琼林祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V228 Dongjin 东津 1. Village settlement The population of Dongjin is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Chengshangong 城山宫, Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天 上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗 大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 all the gods of Chengshangong 城山宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. In the 9th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V229 Shanding 山顶 1. Village settlement The population of Shanding is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Meishan gong 美山宫, Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社 branched out from the Chengshanshê 城山社 of Dongjin 东津 due to disputes over the processions of the gods. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 all the gods of Meishangong 美山宫 and Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V230 Kengwei 坑尾 1. Village settlement The population of Kengwei is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Lin 林, Xu 许, and Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Meishangong 美山宫, Xingningshê 兴宁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 all the gods of Meishangong 美山宫 and Xingningshê 兴宁社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 9/10: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V231 Dongzhuo 东卓 1. Village settlement The population of Dongzhuo is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xie 谢. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Huang 黄, Cai 蔡, and Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qishangong 棋山宫, Yonganshê 永安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zucheng shengwang 祖城 圣王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 all the gods of Qishangong 棋山宫 and Yonganshê 永安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 lanterns are carried in a procession around the village boundaries. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/19: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On these occasions, opera are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V232 Xizhuo 西卓 1. Village settlement The population of Xizhuo is approximately 400. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Xizhuo gong 西卓宫, Anning zhongxing shê 安宁 仲兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Fengshanci 凤山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6–7, all the gods of Xizhuogong 西卓宫 and Anning zhongxingshê 安宁仲兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters or Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V233 Huanglin 黄林 1. Village settlement The population of Huanglin village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhou 周, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Huanglingong 篁林宫, Anning zhongxingshê 安宁 中兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 all the gods of Huanglingong 篁林宫 and Anning zhongxingshê 安宁中兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V234 Yuntang 云塘 1. Village settlement The population of Yuntang village is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Taiping shushê 太平书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, all the gods of Taiping shushê 太平书社 are taken in a procession to “practice the Dao” 行道 in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A053 Hushi shangshibaxiang (Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance) 笏石上十四乡 The Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance is located on the southern edge of the Guqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing this area was made out of bounds 界外, and these villages were forcibly evacuated. The region was divided up into the Xishanpu 西山铺, the Chicenpu 赤岑铺 and the Sanshepu 三社铺 (police/defense units) of the Gouqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming there were two villages in this area, namely Chicen 赤岑 and Yangshan 杨山. In the Qing, the following villages separated off: Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜, Bitou 泌头, Houshê 后社, Xushê 徐厝, Dongxingtou 东硎头 (Dengaotou 登鳌头), Xijin 西津, Dongcai 东蔡, and Xicai 西蔡. At the end of the Qing, the following villages were settled: Songting 松亭, Linkeng 林坑, Qianlin 前林, Yuanqian 院前, Qianzheng 前郑, Dapu 大埔, Lingxia 岭下, and Shanglin 上林. The current population of this area is over 10,000 people, who are managed through five Administrative Villages: Xixu 西徐, Bajin 坝津, Lingmei 岭美, Yanglin 杨林, and Liucuo 刘厝. Chengshangong 城山宫 temple, located in Xucuo village 徐厝, and Wanyunge 万云阁 temple of Yuanqian village 院前村, are the two main temples for the upper fourteen village alliance. Each year with an intercalary lunar month, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Chengshangong and Chen dage 陈大哥 of Wanyunge are carried in a procession around the upper fourteen village alliance (now expanded to Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance eighteen villages). In addition, the upper fourteen village alliance originally included the villages of Tiancen 田岑 and Xiyuan erxiang 西园二乡, both of which no longer exist. Moreover, the villages of Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜 and Bitou 泌头, which belonged to the alliance, now have established their own relatively independent ritual system. Villages which do not belong to the twenty-eight village alliance but still participate in the ritual activities of the upper fourteen village alliance include Xiawei 下尾, Dinggu 定固 (Chenmu 陈墓), and Houzhu 后洙. In the feuding banner alliance of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Hushi lower fourteen village alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V235 Xucuo 徐厝 1. Village settlement Xucuo is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. Xucuo village ncludes the former Tiancen village 田岑村. The population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 徐 (divided into the front branch and back branch). 3. Village temples 1) Chengshangong 城山宫 contains both the Yongju xishê 永居西社 and the Tiancenshê 田岑社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yushan shuyuan 玉山书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Wanshunting 万顺亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the front branch of the Xu 徐 surname group invites all the gods of Chengshangong 城山宫 and Yongju zhongshê 永居中社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the Xu front branch, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/19, the back branch of the Xu surname group invites all the gods of the Chengshangong temple 城山宫 and the Tiancenshê 田岑社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the Xu back branch, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/15: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/14: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/16: Pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 普度. 12/24: Send off the gods 送神. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V236 Songting 松亭 1. Village settlement Songting is also known as Shangting 上亭. Songting is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行政村. The population is approximately 360 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Songtinjing Yongju zhongshê 松亭境永居中社 branched off from the Yongju xishê 永居西社 of Xucuo 徐厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 all the gods of Yongju zhongshê 永居中社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V237 Houshê 后社 1. Village settlement Houshê is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. The population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Beiji dian 北极殿 contains the altar of the Yongjuzhong shushe 永居中书社: This is one of the three shê of Dongbian 东 边. Built during the mid-Ming Dynasty, it was renovated in Tongzhi 1 (1862). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Chensan furen 陈三夫人, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 and Chensan furen 陈三夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Chensan furen 陈三夫人. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 4./26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/24: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V238 Linkeng 林坑 1. Village settlement Linkeng is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. The population is approximately 350 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhou 周. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Jinaogong 金鳌宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Baiqingci 白清祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Hua Tuo xiansheng 华陀先生. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V239 Dengaotou 登鳌头 1. Village settlement Dengaotou is also called Dongxingtou 东硎头 or Dengjiatou 登加头. Dengaotou is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. The population is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Dengaogong 登鳌宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wutan zunsheng 五坛尊圣, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Shanfutang 善福堂: The main gods are Dizang renshi 地藏仁师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Zhenshanci 真山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Nanhaiting 南海亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 all the gods of Dengaogong 登鳌宫 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd or 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. In the 8th or 9th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V240 Yuanqian 院前 1. Village settlement Yuanqian is also called Yanqian 岩前. Yuanqian is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Weng 翁, Xu 徐, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Wanyunge 万云阁 is the main temple for the upper fourteen village alliance 上十四乡. The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Chenfu daxiong 陈府大兄. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Chenfu shengren 陈府 圣人, Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 2) Yingquan dongshê 瀛泉东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 all the gods of Yingquan dongshê 瀛泉东社 go on procession through the village. Opera is performed and Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Chenfu daxiong 陈府大兄. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 4/14: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 5/10: The birthday celebration of Chenfu shengren 陈府圣人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. On all these occasions, with the exception of the birthday for Zunzhu mingwang, which is organized by the village alone, with funding raised on a per capita basis, the celebrations for the gods are organized by Wanyun dian 万云殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals during all these celebrations. 
V241 Qianzheng 前郑 1. Village settlement Qianzheng is part of the Bajin Administrative Village 坝津行政村. The population of Qianzheng village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Hongyun dian 红云殿, Jinzi tang 金紫堂, Zhenzhuge 珍珠阁: These linked temples were built in Hongzhi 4 (1491). This is the main temple for the entire twenty-eight village alliance 二十八乡. The main god is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Laozu dafa tianshi 老祖大法天师, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Meifeng zushê 梅峰祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Meifeng ting 梅峰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 all the gods of Meifeng zushê 梅峰祖社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V242 Xijin 西津 1. Village settlement Xijin is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Xijin village is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Anninggong 安宁宫: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xixing wenshê 西兴文社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shunxingsi Buddhist temple 顺心寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:227) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 all the gods of Anninggong 安宁宫 and Xixing wenshê 西兴文社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V243 Yangshan 杨山 1. Village settlement Yangshan is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Yangshan village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cheng 程. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Zhu 朱, Lin 林, and Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Xinglonggong 兴隆宫, Antai shushê 安泰书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军and Huo jiangjun 火将军. 2) Xiangkoumiao 巷口庙: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Baiyutang 白玉堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/21–22 all the gods of Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 and Antai shushê 安泰书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by Xiangkoumiao 巷口庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/24: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V244 Chicen 赤岑 1. Village settlement Chicen is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Chicen village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Linfeng shushê 麟峰书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xialin zhushê 下林朱社, Julongge 聚龙阁: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Julanting 聚澜亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/ 9 all the gods of Linfeng shushê 麟峰书社, Xialin zhushê 下林朱社 and Julongge 聚龙阁 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V245 Xicai 西蔡 1. Village settlement Xicai is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Xicai is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, Wei 魏, and Lin 林. There are no main surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xingshangong 兴山宫, Anping shushê 安平书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Junzhentang 郡真堂: The main god is Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/23 all the gods of Xingshangong 兴山宫 and Anping shushê 安平书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/18: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 10/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V246 Lingxi 岭下 1. Village settlement Lingxia is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Lingxia village is approximately 1700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups is the Huang 黄. Other surnames include the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Hudong shushê 湖东书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Lingnan shuyuan 岭南书院: Also called Hulinggong 湖岭宫, the temple was built in Qianlong 34 (1769), and was renovated both in Tongzhi 12 (1873) and in 1947. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Baiyudong 白玉洞 is located in Wumashan 五马山. The temple was originally a tomb of the righteous, and unrequited (unknown soldier) 义塚. The main god is Dage 大哥. Secondary gods include Guniang 姑娘, Shanshen 山神, Liuye 六爷, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–11 all the gods of Hudong sheshê 湖东书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/19: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The village organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/11: The birthday celebration of Guniang 姑娘 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Dage 大哥 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The village organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/5: The birthday celebration of Liuye 六爷 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rituals. 
V247 Qianlin 前林 1. Village settlement Qianlin is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Qianlin village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. Other surname groups include the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Huling xishê 湖岭西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Mingxiatang 明夏堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on procession to every household within the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10./18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V248 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement Shanglin is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. The population of Shanglin village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Ruan 阮, Lin 林, and Fang 方. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yunchengong 云辰宫, Lianruilin shê 连瑞林社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Yishanci 沂山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 246 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Yunchengong 云辰宫 and Lianruilin shê 连瑞林社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to con- duct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V249 Dapu 大埔 1. Village settlement Dapu is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美 行政村. The population of Dapu is approximately 650 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Wu 吴, and Huang 黄. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing xishê 新兴西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Anminfu 安民府: the main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Zhushuiting 驻水亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 all the gods of Xinxing xishê 新兴西社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/19: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V250 Xiawei 下尾 1. Village settlement Xiawei is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Xiawei village is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. Minor surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Bifenggong 笔峰宫 was rebuilt in Guangxu 18 (1892). The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dasheng 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷. 2) Huilong shushê 会龙书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi. 杨公太师. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V251 Dinggu 定固 1. Village settlement Dinggu is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Dinggu is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林, originated from Ding zhuang 定庄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingzhengong 兴镇宫, Jinming shushê 进明书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Jingliye 经理爷 (Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯), Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Zhongqiuye 中秋爷 (Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣). 2) Shangshan temple 上善寺 was originally built in Kangxi 7 (1668) and was moved to the south of the Su mountain 苏山 in Kangxi 17 (1698). (PTZJZ, 1992:226) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The funding is raised through contributions from Toulu 头炉 (keepers of the incense burners) and Fushou 福首 (headsmen). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/17: The birthday celebration of Jingliye 经理爷. 7/24: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zhongqiuye 中秋爷. Marionette plays are performed. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V252 Houzhu 后洙 1. Village settlement Houzhu is also written as 后珠 or 后朱, after the Zhu surname. Houzhu is part of the Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行 政村. The population of Houzhu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Sushangong 苏山宫 contains the altar of Zhushanshê 珠山社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Andingfu 安定府: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Changzhouci 长洲祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Da ye 大爷 and Er ye 二爷. 4) Qingquanting 清泉亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 all the gods of Sushangong 苏山宫 and Zhushanshê 珠山社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A054 Xishan sancun (Xishan three village ritual alliance) 西山三村 The Xishan three village ritual alliance is located on the sides of the Guoqing reservoir 国清塘. This area was part of the Xishanpu 西山铺 (police/defense unit) of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the village of Hutuou 湖头村, and in the Qing the three villages of Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜 and Bitou 泌头 separated off. Currently, these villages are managed by the Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行政村. The Xishangong 西山宫 temple and the Yongju shushê 永居书社, located in Xishan village 西山村, are the main temple and shê altar of the three village ritual alliance. First built in the early Qing, the temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chifeng Jiedushi 敕封节度使, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. Each year on lunar 1/7–9, the gods of the Xishangong and the Yongju shushê are invited on a procession to each village in the alliance. This event is organized by the temple committee, made up of representatives from each of the participating three villages of the ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three village alliance of Xishan was part of the black banner alliance. 
V253 Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The population of Xishan village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xie 谢 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Xishangong 西山宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: This is the main temple for the villages of Bitou 泌头, Shandou 山兜, and Xishan 西山. It was built during the early Qing Dynasty. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chifeng jiedushi 敕封节度使, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母. 3) Sanqingci 三清祠: The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 150 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong 西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Xishan 西山 village as well as the villages of Bitou 泌头 and Shandou 山兜. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Xishangong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/17 the Xie 谢 surname group invites all the gods of Sanqingci 三清祠 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 to go on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Xie 谢 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within the lineage. On 1/18 the Lin 林 surname group invites all the gods of Tianhougong 天后宫 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 to go on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within the lineage. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母, organized by the the village as a whole. 9/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized by the Xie 谢. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Lin 林. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis by the organizing group. 
V254 Bitou 泌头 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin ancestral hall 林氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Taipingshê 太平社 includes the Miaoyinting 妙音亭: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Qingminfu 青民府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Xingyuntang 兴云堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 450 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong 西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Bitou village as well as the villages of Xishan 西山 and Shandou 山兜. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Xishangong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14–15 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/17: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 8/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V255 Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Chenshangong 辰山宫 contains the altar of the Yongju dongshê 永居东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Chenshi xiangu 陈氏仙姑, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianyingmiao 显应庙: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Juyunge 聚云阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 all the gods of Chenshangong 辰山宫 and Yongju dongshê 永居东社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong 西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Shandou village as well as in the villages of Xishan 西山 and Bitou 泌头. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xishan gong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 11/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A055 Niushan qijing (Niushan sevenfold ritual alliance) 牛山七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Niushan is located along the feet of Hugong 壶公 Mountain on the far reaches of the irrigated southern plain of the Mulan irrigation system. This region was part of the Dongguo Huaizuo Yicuopu 东郭槐佐蚁厝铺 of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton and the Zhupupu 珠埔铺 of Hepuli 合浦里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Cuifeng 翠峰村 and Dongpuyu 东埔余, and in the early Qing the villages of Houdong 后董, Yicuo 蚁厝 and Chenshantou 陈山头 separated off. In the late Qing, the villages of Meilin 梅林 and Xiazhuang 下庄 separated off. Of these villages, Dongpuyu 东埔余, Houdong 后董 and Yicuo 蚁厝 are also part of the Lingyun xiashibaxiang 凌云下十八乡 (Lingyun lower eighteen village ritual alliance) and are administered by the Dongpuyu Administrative Village 东埔余行政村. The four villages of Chenshantou 陈山头, Dapu 大埔, Meilin 梅林, and Xiazhuang 下庄 are also part of the Zhupu ershiwuxiang 珠埔二十五乡 (Zhupu twenty-five village ritual alliance) and are managed by the Meishan Administrative Village 梅山行政村. The Niushan zumiao 牛山祖庙 on top of Niushan Mountain is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Xiexun shenghou 协顺圣侯, whose feast day is celebrated on 6/12. Other gods include the father and mother of the god, the Shengfu 圣父 and Shengmu 
A055 Niushan qijing sevenfold ritual alliance 圣母, Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. During the 6th lunar month, between lunar 6/8 to 6/15, seven days of opera are performed at the temple with each village in the sevenfold alliance sponsoring one day of opera in turn. Historically, the Yu 余 lineage of Dongpuyu 东埔余 village was a prominent lineage with many examination graduates. During the Ming they produced one Jinshi 进士 and four Juren 举人. In Ming Chenghua 7 (1471) the Fujan Provincial Aministration Vice Commissioner set up a Jihshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Yu lineage. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Niushan sevenfold ritual alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V256 Dongpuyu 东埔余 1. Village settlement The total population of the village of Dongpuyu is approximately 1000 people. The Yu 余 makes up more than 95% of the population of the village. Other surnames include the Li 李 and other miscellanous surname groups 杂姓. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are no other sidelines. 2. Surname groups (The Yu 余) The Yu of Dongpuyu and the Yu of Duwei 度尾 of Xianyou 仙游 are related. The year of their migration to Dongpuyu is unknown. The Yu have been here for more than ten generations. The Yu are divided into four branches: the Jiucuoli 旧厝里 is called the founder’s line (Kaizu 开族), while Zhongdijiao 中帝角 is the first branch, Dating 大厅 is the second branch, Weicuo 尾厝 the third branch, and Zhaili 寨里 is the fourth branch. The first two branches have more people. There is a Yu ancestral hall 余氏祠堂, called the Xiaoshutang 校书堂. In the past, there were ancestral spirit tablets 仙牌 placed in the hall, but now it has been transformed into a school. The Yu are said to have originally emigrated from Zhejiang province 浙江, and some migrated back to Zhejiang later on. In recent years, some descendants came from Zhejiang to identify their ancestors in this village. The lineage genealogy existed in the past, but it was later taken by children to fly kites with, so it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Cuifeng shushê 翠峰书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Siye 四爷. 3) Zhuyuanting 驻源亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Minxi shuyuan 闽西书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8: the incense burners of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑 are draped in red veils and carried in a procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held with opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with marionette plays. 6/15: The celebration of Xiexun shenghou 协顺圣侯 is held with opera. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held with marionette plays. 11/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V257 Yicuo 蚁厝 1. Village settlement The total population of Yicuo village is less than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Yi 蚁, of which the Huang makes up 2/3 of the entire population, while the Yi 蚁 only have a few households. There are no sideline occupations in the village. Economic conditions are relatively poor. The Huang are now divided into four lineage branches: first branch, second branch, third branch, and fourth branch, of which the second branch has the most people, with approximately 20 people. The others only have a few households. There is no lineage genealogy or ancestral hall in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Wenxing xinshê 文兴新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Jinjiangjun 金将军, Wujiangjun 吴将军, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主, Niushangong shengfumu 牛山宫圣父母 and Yishangong shengfumu 怡山宫圣父母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯 is carried around the village on procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Fushou are selected by randomly picking lots. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held. Villagers go on a pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 to request the dou 请斗 “lamps of destiny”. 6/15–16: The celebration of Xiexun shengjou 协顺圣侯 is held, with opera performances. 8/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held with opera performances. 
V258 Houdong 后董 1. Village settlement The population of Houdong village is approximately 500–600 people (with more than 80 households). In addition to agriculture, the main livelihood is blacksmithing. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Yi 蚁, Zheng 郑, Chen 陈, Yang 杨, and Zhu 朱, of which the Huang has the most people, with approximately 300 people. The Yi 蚁 have 15–16 households. The Zheng 郑 have 5–6 households. The Chen 陈 has one household. It has been less than ten years since the Yang emigrated from Xiajiangtou 下江头 of Huangshi 黄石. The Huang 黄 is a single branch surname. Where the Huang emigrated from is unknown. The village has over ten households of Christians. 3. Village temples 1) Xingwen shushê 兴文书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Fengshangong 风山宫 is dedicated to Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, statues of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣候 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 are carried around the village on procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is also invited to hold rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/19: the celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held with two days of opera. Note: (1) Lanpen pudu Rites of Universal Deliverance 兰盆普渡: With the exception of Dongpuyu village, the villages of Yicuo and Houdong host the rites for the deliverance of the dead every two years. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited, and a marionette version of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 is performed. 
V259 Meilin 梅林 1. Village settlement There are a total of approximately 450 people living in Meilin village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wen 温. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing longshê 新兴龙社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Wanlingting 万林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the gods of Xinxing longshê 新兴龙社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V260 Chenshantou 陈山头 1. Village settlement Chenshantou is also called Meishan 梅山, and is divided into neighborhoods such as Macuo 马厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Qianting 前厅, Houmen 后门, Houmian 后面, Wenbing 文柄 (Mubing 墓柄). There is a total of more than 2000 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 徐 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Puyuan shushê 埔源书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Shanshen 山神, Shiwuma 十五妈. 2) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Yuanshuiting 源水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Songpoci 松坡祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 21 claims that there are 315 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10, the gods of Puyuan shushê 埔源书社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V261 Xiazhuang 下庄 1. Village settlement Approximately 100 people live in Xiazhuang village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples Zhengxi wenshê 郑西文社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 the gods of Zhengxi wenshê 郑西文社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V262 Dapu 大埔 1. Village settlement The total population of Dapu village is approximately 1900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Fan 范. 3. Village temples 1) Puyuan yishê 埔源益社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Jinjiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Songmingci 松明祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Baoshantang Buddhist temple 宝善堂 was built in the Ming (PTZJZ, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9 the gods of Puyuan yishê 埔源 益社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/18: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A056 Yangmian qijing (Yangmian sevenfold ritual alliance) 洋面七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Yangmian is located along the lower slopes of Hugong Mountain 壶公山畔, in the far reaches of the Mulan irrigation system of the Southern irrigated plain. This area was originally part of the Dongyouhuaizuo Yicuopu 东郭槐佐蚁厝舖 (police/defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. In the Qing, there were the villages of Dongguo 东郭, Huaizuo 槐佐, and Houcuo 侯厝 in this region, and by the end of the Qing the villages of Yangmian 洋面, Xiaxi 下西 and Qiaotou 桥头 had separated off. In recent times, these villages have been under the management of the Haizao Administrative Village 亥灶行政村. They are also members of the Linyun xiashibaxiang 凌云下十八乡 (Lingyun lower eighteen village ritual alliance). The Baolingong 宝林宫 temple and the Zhengtang zushê 郑塘祖社, located in Yangmian 洋面 village, is the main overall temple and founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 as well as Erlangshen 二郎神. Each year on lunar 1/15 Erlangshen 二郎神 is invited to go on a procession around the sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. In addition, the Longyingtang 龙应堂 temple, located in Bancuo 板厝 village, is the main temple of a fivefold ritual alliance made up of the villages of Qiancuo 前厝, Houcuo 后厝, Houcuo 侯厝, Xiaxi 下西 and Qiaotou 桥头. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Yangmian was part of the black banner alliance. 
V263 Yangmian 洋面 1. Village settlement The total population of Yangmian village is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄 which emigrated from Huian 惠安. 3. Village temples Baolingong 宝林宫 contains the altar of the Zhengtang zushê 郑塘祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erlangshen 二郎神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heimian jiangjun 黑面将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and invite the Lamps of Destiny (qingdou 请斗) from Lingyundian 凌云殿. On 1/15, Erlangshen 二郎神 is invited to go on procession to the villages of the ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Baolingong 宝林宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Yangmian sevenfold ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V264 Dongguo 东郭 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Dongguo village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Zhou 周, and the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Baolingong 宝林宫 houses the altar of the Zhengtang zushê 郑塘祖社. This temple branched off from the Baolingong and Zhengtang zushê of Yangmian 洋面 in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erlangshen 二郎神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heimian jiangjun 黑面将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, villagers go on a pilgrimage and offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) dou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿. On 1/15, Erlangshen 二郎神 is invited to go on procession within the villages of the ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the entire village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/19: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V265 Haizao 亥灶 1. Village settlement Haizao village is divided into Shanghaizao 上亥灶 and Xiahaizao 下亥灶. Approximately 700 people live in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhuang 庄 and Huang 黄. The Zhuang emigrated from Huian 惠安, and they are divided into two branches: the Shang zhuang 上庄 and the Xiazhuang 下庄 branches. There used to be a Zhuang ancestral hall 庄氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Taoshangong 陶山宫 contains the altar of the Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Dashiye 大使爷, Ershiye 二使爷, Jin shuaiye 金帅爷, and Shanshen 山神. 2) Fuxingshê 福兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Baiyundong 白云洞: The main god is Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) qingdou 请斗 from the Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on Hugong 壶公 Mountain. On 1/12 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dashiye 大使爷 are invited to go to every household to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/14 the gods of Taoshangong 陶山宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Villagers go on pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong 壶公 mountain to request incense 请香. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is also celebrated. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V266 Bancuo 板厝 1. Village settlement Bancuo village is divided into two neighborhoods: Qiancuo 前厝 and Houcuo 后厝. There is a total of approximately 350 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Cai 蔡, and Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Longyingtang 龙应堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Longshu zushi 龙树祖师, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zougong yuanshuai 邹公元帅, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Tielushê 铁炉社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Qingyingtai 清应台 is dedicated to Kong fu daren 孔府大人. 4) Jidongshan 即东山 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) qingdou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 mountain. On 1/13 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Kong daren is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized by the Tielushê 铁炉社. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V267 Houcuo 侯厝 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Houcuo village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Ren 任 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Tielushê 铁炉社 is located in Bancuo 板厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tianqingfu 天清府 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Juyuanting 聚源亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Su daren 苏大人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and request the dipper (Lamps of Destiny) qingdou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong mountain. On 1/12 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂 and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession within the village and in Qiaotou 桥头 and Xiaxi 下西 villages. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the three village alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. The villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense to the god at the Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on Hugong mountain. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Su daren 苏大人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Tielushê 铁炉社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V268 Qiaotou 桥头 1. Village settlement Qiaotou is also known as Tongtianqiao 通天桥. There are more than 200 people living in Qiaotou village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Guo 郭 and the Zhuo 卓. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tielushê 铁炉社 is located in Bancuo 板厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tianqingfu 天清府 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Shunxingting 顺兴亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮 尊天. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and request the dipper (Lamps of Destiny) qingdou 请斗 from the Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong mountain. On 1/12 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂 and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession within the village and in Bancuo 板厝 and Xiaxi 下西 villages as well. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the three village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Marionette plays are performed. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/2: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed, and Three-in-One scripture masters 经师 are invited to con duct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Tielu shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V269 Xiaxi 下西 1. Village settlement Approximately 100 people live in Xiaxi village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Longyingtang 龙应堂 houses the altar of the Quanxingshê 泉兴社. This temple branched off from the Tielushê 铁炉社 of Bancuo 板厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and request the dipper (Lamps of Destiny) qing dou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong mountain. On 1/12 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂 and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession within the village itself and in Qiaotou 桥头 and Bancuo 板厝 villages as well. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the three village alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the entire village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A057 Lingui qijing (Lingui sevenfold ritual alliance) 林桂七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingui is located on the slopes of Hugong Mountain 壶公山 in the far reaches of the Mulan irrigation system of the Southern Irrigated plain. This area was part of the Qiaotou banshanpu 桥头 坂上铺 (police/defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. These villages are also within the Linyun lower eighteen village alliance 凌云下十八乡. In the Ming, this area had Xiayu village 下余村. In the Qing the villages of Xuke Lingui sevenfold ritual alliance 徐柯, Moshangkeng 磨上坑, Cangfeng 仓缝 and Lingui 林桂 separated off. By the end of the Qing, the villages of Pengmu 彭墓, Shanglin 上林, and Chisong 赤松 had separated off. Currently the seven natural villages of the ritual alliance have a population of approximately 3000 people who are all under the management of the Guilin Administrative Village 桂林行政村. The Zhaohuigong 昭灵宫 temple and its Zhaohui zushê 昭灵祖社, located in Lingui 林桂村 village, is the main temple and founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingui The main god is Chifeng Huiji shenghou 敕封惠济圣侯. Each year on lunar 1/16 a collective general Yuanxiao ritual is held, and Chifeng Huiji shenghou 敕封惠济圣侯 is taken on a procession to all the villages of the ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Lingui sevenfold ritual alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. Apart from agriculture, the village economy is also supplemented by construction work such as brick-laying and carpentry done during agricultural idle periods. 
V270 Lingui 林桂 1. Village settlement The village of Lingui has more than 1000 people and includes the neighborhoods of Canghou 仓后, also known as Cangfeng 仓缝. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Lin 林, who are divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples Zhaoling gong 昭灵宫, Zhaoling zushê 昭灵祖社 This is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingui 林桂七境. (There used to be three halls to the temple complex. Two halls were destroyed during the rebellion of the “Sixteenth Emperor” Huang Lian 黄濂, in the Republican period. The temple was rebuilt ten years ago, and became the main temple for the lower eighteen village alliance). The temple is subdivided into five shê altars: Xinshê 新社, including the villages of Shanglin 上林, Pengmu 彭墓, Mazhukeng 马竹坑, and Chisong 赤松. The Dongshê 东社 which belongs to Xiayu 下余; the Zushê 祖社 which belongs to Canghou 苍后 (Lingui 林桂); the Shengshê 圣社 which belongs to Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝 but which has not yet been rebuilt, and the Shushê 书社, which belongs to Xuke 徐柯. The temple is dedicated to the imperially enfeoffed Huiji shenghou 敕封惠济圣侯 Secondary gods are Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 (Xinshê 新社), Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 (Xinshe), and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 (Xinshe) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated at the founding shê altar (Zushê 祖社). On 1/16 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Early in the 2nd lunar month, the rites of Toufu are celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/9: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 
V271 Mazhukeng 马竹坑 1. Village settlement Mazhukeng was originally known as Moshangkeng (磨上坑). The village of Mazhukeng has more than 240 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Lin 林, Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples Masongjing Zhaoling xinshê 马松境昭灵新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sima shengren 司马圣人. This temple is co-owned by the villages of Shanglin 上林, Pengmu 彭墓, Mazhukeng 马竹坑 and Chisong 赤松. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19, Huiji shenghou 慧济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried around the village on procession. A ritual host is selected from the middle-aged and elders of Shanglin 上林, Xuke 徐柯, Pengmu 彭墓 and Muzhukeng 马竹坑. One host per year is selected. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct a Jiao rite. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/26: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held and marionette plays are performed. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct rites. 
V272 Pengmu 彭墓 1. Village settlement The village of Pengmu has more than 160 people. 2. Surname groups Almost all the villagers are of the Lin 林 surname group. The Lin of Mazhukeng 马竹坑 and Pengmu 彭墓 makes up approxmately 250–300 people. It is said that the rituals of the Lin are very close to those of the Minnan people 闽南人 (i.e. celebrating the feast for the hungry ghosts on 7/15 rather than on 10/15 as is usual in the Putian area). They might have come from Huian 惠安. Currently, there are two places for their ancestral tombs. In the past, there was common worship by the lineage, but it no longer happens today. There is no lineage genealogy. The Lin of the two village are divided into four branches, the first and second branches are in Pengmu, and the third and fourth branches are in Mazhukeng. The first branch has the most people, with approximately 100 people. 3. Village temples Masongjing Zhaoling xinshê 马松境昭灵新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19 Huiji shenghou 慧济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession through the villages of Shanglin 上林, Xuke 徐柯, Pengmu 彭墓, and Mazhukeng 马竹坑. This is organized by the elders of each village. Each year one of them is selected to be the ritual organizer. Also each year three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao 建醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: All the birthdays of all the gods are celebrated together on this day. Opera is performed for two days, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. 
V273 Chisong 赤松 1. Village settlement There are about 400 people living in Chisong village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Niu 牛, and Zheng 郑, of which the Lin makes up 80% of the entire population. 3. Village temples Zhaoling xinshê 昭灵新社 is located in Mazhukeng 马竹坑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19, Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: The birthdays of gods are celebrated together. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. 
V274 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement The village of Shanglin has more than 200 people. 2. Surname groups The majority of the people are of the Lin 林 surname group. This village was originally part of Pengmu 彭墓, but it branched off later on. There is only one Huang 黄 household. 3. Village temples Zhaoling xinshê 昭灵新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19 Huiji shenghou 慧济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession through the villages of Shanglin 上林, Xuke 徐柯, Pengmu 彭墓, and Mazhukeng 马竹坑. Each year three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao 建醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: All the birthdays of all the gods are celebrated together on this day. Opera is performed for two days, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. 
V275 Xuke 徐柯 1. Village settlement Xuke village includes Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝. There are more than 500 people living in the village, 2. Surname groups Over 100 of villagers belong to the Ke 柯 surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling shushê 昭灵书社 (which belongs to Xuke 徐柯) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhaoling shengshê 昭灵圣社 (which also belongs to Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Xuke 徐柯 takes the incense burners of the shê altar on a procession through their area. On 1/18, Yuanxiao 元宵 is held for Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝, and the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession through these areas. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, a celebration is held for all the gods of the shê temple. Opera is performed for two days. 
V276 Xiayu 下余 1. Village settlement There are more than 500 people living in Xiayu village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. The Cai make up 80% of the entire population. It is said that their ancestors emigrated from Dongshan 东山 of the Lingquan township. There is a lineage genealogy. The Cai 蔡 in the village are divided into two branches: Qiangdou 墙兜 and Dingcuo 顶厝 are part of the first branch, and Licheng 利埕 and Xiating 下厅 are part of the second branch. The second branch makes up more than 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling dongshê 昭灵东社 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is a secondary deity. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, all the gods are celebrated together with two days of opera. 
A058 Lingyun shangshibaxiang (Lingyun eighteen village ritual alliance) 凌云上十八乡 The Lingyun upper eighteen village alliance is located at the feet of the Hugong Mountain 壶公山麓 at the far reaches of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system of the Southern irrigated plain. In the early Qing, these villages were declared out of bounds 界外, and they were forcibly evacuated. This area was part of the Meilong qianpupu 梅陇前埔铺 (police/defense unit), the Shentang longjinpu 沈塘龙津铺, the Lingcuopu 凌厝铺 and the Qianting Qicaipu 前亭祁蔡铺of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton and the Chicenpu 赤岑铺 of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Xintang 新塘, Jiaojinyang 交津洋, Meilong 梅陇, Daban 大阪, and Qiling 祁凌. In the early Qing the following villages separated off: Longcuo 陇厝, Qianpu 前埔, Xincuo 新厝, Gouwei 沟尾, Qianwei 前尾, Lingcuo 凌厝, Qianting 前亭, Qicuo 祁厝, Caicuo 蔡厝, Dongsong 东宋, Huangzhaipu 黄宅埔, Liucuo 刘厝, and Yingcuo 缨厝. More recently, the following villages have separated off: Xiagou 下沟, Yingbian 营边, Kengbei 坑北, and Baita 白塔. There are now over twenty natural villages in the area, which are managed by the following eight Administrative Villages: Gouwei 沟尾, Longtou 龙头, Daban 大坂, Dongsong 东宋, Lingcuo 凌厝, Liucuo 刘厝, Qicuo 歧厝, Lingmei 岭美. Mingshangong 名山宫 temple, which is located on the foothills of Hushan mountain 壶公山 in the Shanxiangjing 善乡境 is the main temple for the upper eighteen village alliance. The main god of the temple is Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, whose feast day is celebrated on lunar 8/9. The secondary gods are Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母, Haoyu dishi 俣玉 帝师 (Mingshanwang 名山王), Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Xugong taibao 徐公太保, Dianqian sijiangjun 殿前四位将军: Jin, 金, Wei 魏, Dong 董, Li 李. The temple complex was expanded in 1991 to include the Shaoxingsi 绍兴寺, situated on the left of the Mingshangong. This monastery was in existence already in the Sui Dynasty, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with secondary gods Jintong 金童, Yunü 玉女, Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. Also attached to the temple is the Jiuxiandong 九仙洞 cavern-temple. The villages of the alliance take turns inviting the gods of this temple to their home village temples to watch opera. Each year with an intercalary second lunar month, the gods go on a procession to all the eighteen villages of the ritual alliance. Historically, the Xu lineage of Meilong 梅陇徐氏 and the Zheng 郑 lineage of Daban, were two prominent lineages in this area renowned for their examination graduates. In the Ming the Xu lineage produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eight Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) while the Zheng lineage produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and two Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). Lingyun upper eighteen village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the eighteen villages of the Linyun upper alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V277 Xintang 新塘 1. Village settlement Xintang was originally called Shentang 沈塘, and is part of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. The population of the Xintang village is approximately 1800 people. Apart from agriculture, the livelihood of the entire village comes from some cash crops. Some villagers also work as bricklayers, carpenters and casual workers during the idle periods of agriculture. 2. Surname groups The Cai 蔡 makes up 80–90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Huang 黄, Lin 林, and Chen 陈. The Cai 蔡 moved from the Lingchuan 灵川. Their ancestral tombs are located in Fengting 枫亭 in Xianyou 仙游. The Cai are divided into two branches, the Weicuo branch 尾厝 and the fourth branch 四房. The fourth branch has approximately 1000 people. The Cai of Dongcai in Lingquan township 灵川东蔡 have a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Gutang dongshê 古塘东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Pumingtang 普明堂 was originally named Xintangan 新塘庵. This temple is the Shuikoumiao 水口庙 of the thirty-six village alliance 三十六乡. Built during the Song Chunyou period (1241–52), it was renovated in the Qing in Guangxu 22 (1896). The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include the Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Shanfa’an Buddhist nunnery 善发庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the gods of Gutang dongshê 古塘东社 are taken on a procession through the village. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct a jiao 做醮. Lanterns go on procession around the boundaries of the village. Four organizers are selected each year. On 2/ 2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The six gods of Mingshangong 名山宫 are invited to go on procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian Shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. 10/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu Furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Mingshanwang 名山王 and the gods mentioned above. Opera is performed for two days. On a day either in the 10th or 11th lunar month, marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V278 Gouwei 沟尾 1. Village settlement Gouwei natural village is part of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. The entire village has a population of 1300 people. The livelihoods are similar to those of Xintang 新塘. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Yang 杨, and Peng 彭. The Chen have approximately 1200 people, and belong to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. The Chen has reached the 15th generation. The Chen is divided into five branches, which are the first branch, second branch, third branch, fourth branch and the fifth branch. The first branch has the most people, with more than 700 people. There is a Chen ancestral hall, which is now used as the opera house. There is a lineage genealogy (the same as the one in Kuokou 阔口). 3. Village temples 1) Jumingtang 聚明堂: Main god: Lubu xiangong 鲁部 相公, Lubu furen 鲁部夫人. Secondary gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Pufa tianzun 普法天尊, Shangdiye 上帝爷, Wenye 温爷, Xuantan gong 玄坛公, and Huangxuan yuanshuai 黄玄元帅. 2) Baofu xishê 保福西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Heyitang 合一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guandiye 关帝爷, and Xuantangong 玄坛公. 4) Juxinting 聚新亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Kuangwang yuanshuai 匡王元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of the Baofu xishê 保福西社 are taken on procession. The Chen 陈 organize this event: four hosts (Fushou) and four assistant host positions are rotated into each year according to age. Toufu 头福 rites are held on 2/ 2 and opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公 is held with marionette plays. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with marionette plays. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. The god is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to the village to watch the operas. Four or five Daoist ritual masters hold a jiao rite 做醮. The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with two days of opera. 10/24: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held and marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three in One Scripture masters 经师 conduct (chaodu) 超度 deliverance rites in groups of three. 9/9: 
V279 Qinwei 沁尾 1. Village settlement Qinwei is also know as Xinwei 新尾. Qinwei is part of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Qinwei village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨. Other surnames include the Peng 彭 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Qinmeian 沁美庵, Baofu dongshê 保福东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods include Kuang wang 匡王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Huye 虎爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 a pilgrimage is made to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong mountain where incense is offered 进香 and “lamps of destiny” are requested (qingdou 请斗). Opera performances are held at the Lingyundian temple. On 1/15 the gods of Baofu dongshê 保福东社 go on procession within the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/20: the celebration of Kuang wang 匡王 is held. 4/12: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/7: another celebration of Kuangwang 匡王 is held. 8/3: Huanggong yuanshuai of Mingshangong 名山宫黄公元帅 is invited to the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V280 Longtou 龙头 1. Village settlement Longtou is also called Meilong 梅陇 and Longcuo 陇厝. Longtou natural village is part of the Longtou Administrative Village 龙头行政村. Longtou village is also called Meilong 梅陇 and Longcuo 陇厝. The entire village has a population of more than 500 people. Apart from agriculture and raising cash crops and fruit, the livelihood of the entire village is based on short term work in the city during agricultural idle periods. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Li 李, Zheng 郑, Xiao 肖, Wang 王, Lan 兰, and Huang 黄, of which the Chen makes up close to one third of the total population. The Chen of the village are miscellaneous Chen 杂陈 who do not belong to the same ancestry. They are divided into the Chen of Shangcuo 上厝陈, the Chen of Xiacuo 下厝陈 (of the same ancestry), the Chen of Quanzhou 泉州陈, the Chen of Daitou 埭头陈, and the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. Among the divisions, the Chen of Xiacuo has the most people, approximately 90 people. There is no ancestral hall. 3. Village temples Mingshandong 名山洞, Shaoxing zushê 绍兴祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions Between 1/5–15, the Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Mingshangong 名山宫 is invited to the village. On 1/13–14, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Tianshang Shengmu 天上圣母, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 carry out a Jiao 建醮 ritual. A lantern procession traces the village boundaries at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch two days of opera. 8/5–6: Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch two days of opera. 10/8: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held at the Mingshangong 名山宫. Marionette versions of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V281 Xipu 西埔 1. Village settlement Xipu is also called Qianpu 前埔. Xipu is part of the Longtou Administrative Village 龙头行政村. The village of Xipu has more than 750 people. Apart from agriculture and cash crops and fruit trees, the livelihood of the entire village is to work in the city during agricultural idle periods. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林, and they makes up approximately 600 of the entire population of 750 people in the village. Other surnames include the Wu 吴, Peng 彭, Li 李, Zhang 张, and Zheng 郑. It is said that the ancestors of the Lin came from Chidi 赤地 of Donghuang 东黄 in Putian city. The Lin are divided into four branches: Weicuo 尾厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, Jingdou 井兜, and Xiacuo 下厝, of which the Jingdou branch has the most people, with approximately 400 people. 3. Village temples Shaoxing xinshê 绍兴新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Yugong taibao 余公太保, Wenye 温爷, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the gods are invited back to the temple, and three Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. On 1/14–15, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Yugong taibao 余公太保, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are invited to go on a procession. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct a Jiao 建醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods Since the economic condition of the village is rather poor, only a few celebrations are held every year. The only birthday celebration of the gods is held in the 8th lunar month, from the 9th to the 11th, when the incense of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of Mingshangong 名山宫 is requested and brought back to the village. At that time, opera is performed for three days. 
V282 Shangdaban 上大坂 1. Village settlement Shangdaban is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The village of Shangdaban has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 makes up more than 50% of the population. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Gao 高, Zhuo 卓, Dai 戴, Zhu 朱, and Yu 俞. According to the posted lists of the donations to village rituals arranged by production teams 生产队, the Chen are mainly concentrated in the 5th, 4th and 7th team, of which the 4th has approximately 150 people and the 7th has the most people, at approximately 240–250 people. 3. Village temples 1) Songpojing Qingyinggong 松坡境清应宫 contains the altar of the Baofushê 保福社, and was built in 1989 collectively by Shangdaban and Xiadaban villages; this is the main temple for these two natural villages. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 (who belongs to Shangdaban 上大坂), and Zhongji shenghou 忠济圣侯 (who belongs to Xiadaban 下大坂). Secondary gods include Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君, Fazhu xiangu 法主仙姑, Sijiang 四将, and Baban 八班. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–18, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯 goes on procession. One host (Fushou) it is selected by rotation according to age each year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shenghou 司马圣侯 is held with two days of opera. Three Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
V283 Xiadaban 下大坂 1. Village settlement Xiadaban is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The total population of the village is approximately 1100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups include the Li 李, Xie 谢, Cai 蔡, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑, of which the Weng makes up more than 50% of the population. The Zheng have approximately 100 people. The Zheng 郑 emigrated from Dongmen 东门 of Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenhuci 枕壶祠 houses the Baofushê 保福社 which is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary goddess is Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. 2) Shanqing tang Buddhist hall 善庆堂 (PTZJZ, 1992) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–16, Zhongji shenghou 忠济 圣侯 is carried on procession. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/9: The celebration of Zhongji shenghou 忠济圣侯 is held with two days of opera. 10/4: Lanpen chaodu 兰盆超度 rites of deliverance are held. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct the rites, and marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V284 Mokengli 磨坑里 1. Village settlement Makengli is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The village has a total population of approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Su 苏, Lin 林, Fu 傅, Xu 许, and Zheng 郑, of which the Su have approximately 200 people while the Zheng have more than 100 people. The Su 苏 are divided into four lineage branches. The Zheng 郑 moved from Changtai 常太, and are divided into four branches, of which Wuzhuli 五主里 branch has the most people, with approximately 60–70 people. 3. Village temples Mokenglijing Liangxigong 磨坑里境梁溪宫 contains the altar of the Xingtingshê 兴亭社. The temple is dedicated to Jixianggong 吉祥公, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dadiye 大帝爷, and Tudigong 土地公. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Jixianggong 吉祥公 is carried in a procession around the village. Every year, one person takes turn to become the Fushou. No opera is performed. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/5: The celebration of Jixianggong 吉祥公 is held with two days of opera. Three Daoist ritual masters hold a jiao rite 做醮. 
V285 Huangtoupu 黄头埔 1. Village settlement Huangtoupu is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The village has a total population of approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李, Weng 翁, Xin 辛, and Chen 陈, of which the Li has the most number of people, with approximately 400 people. The Chen only have four households. The Li are divided into two branches. When and where they emigrated from is unknown. The two branches have approximately the same number of people. 3. Village temples Meihuashê 梅花社 was built in the Ming, according to inscriptions on the temple rafters, with funds from several local literati. The village only has only one temple. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, as well as Baima jiangjun 白马将军 and Chima jiangjun 赤马将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two days of opera. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V286 Kengbei 坑北 1. Village settlement Kengbei is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Kengbei village. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yang 杨 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Fufenggong 阜峰宫 houses the altar of the Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Xugong taibao 徐公 太保, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–18 the gods of Fufenggong 阜峰宫 and Anfushê 安福社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V287 Baita 白塔 1. Village settlement Baita village is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. Baita is divided into three neighborhoods: Xincuo 新厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Xiacuo 下厝. There are approximately 450 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xinglinggong 兴灵宫 houses the Xingminshê 兴民社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yang baniang 杨八娘, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, and the Bajiang 八将. 2) Wanyingting 万应亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/21 the gods of the Xinglinggong 兴灵宫 and Xingminshê 兴民社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the village participates in the eighteen village alliance procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V288 Liucuo 刘厝 1. Village settlement Liucuo natural village is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. There are approximately 200 people living in Liucuo village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples Kuishagong 奎山宫 contains the Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Xugong taibao 徐公太保, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Huisantang 汇三堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 144 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Anfushê 安福社 are invited to go to every household to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/17 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Kuishangong 奎山宫 is taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V289 Yingbian 营边 1. Village settlement Yingbian is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. There are approximately 600 people living in Yingbian village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Anfu lishê 安福里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公 元帅, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 the gods of Anfu lishê 安福 里社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V290 Caicuo 菜厝 1. Village settlement Caicuo village is part of Qicuo Administrative Village 歧厝行政村. Caicuo is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangcai 上菜 and Xiacai 下菜. There are approximately 800 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qilin xishê 麒麟西社 is connected to the Shanyingtang 善应堂. The temple was built in Kangxi 47 (1708). There is a stone inscription dated Daoguang 15 (1835). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 2) Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社 is connected to the Guanlanting 观澜亭: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Shangcai 上菜 takes the gods of Qilin xishê 麒麟西社 and Shanyingtang 善应堂 on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/12, Xiacai 下菜 takes the gods of Yanpu xinshê 颜埔 新社 and Guanlanting 观澜亭 on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by each shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Qilin xishê 麒麟西社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Shangcai 上菜. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Xiacai 下菜, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Shangcai 上菜, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xiacai 下菜, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V291 Qicuo 岐厝 1. Village settlement Qicuo natural village is part of Qicuo Administrative Village 歧厝行政村. Qicuo is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangqi 上岐 and Xiaqi 下岐. There are approximately 2000 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Qishangong 岐山宫 houses the Qilin dongshê 麒麟 东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 2) Wananshê 万安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu fure 后土夫人. 3) Beichendian 北辰殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Huisantang 汇三堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 the gods of Qishangong 岐山宫, Qilin dongshê 麒麟东社, and Wananshê 万安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Qilin dongshê 麒麟东社. These events are organized by the shê as a whole. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. These events are organized by Shangqi 上岐. 3/12: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 7/19: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐.. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wananshê 万安社. These events are organized by Shangqi 上岐. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. On most of these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis by the organizing neighborhood or by the village as a whole. 8/14: 
V292 Dongsong 东宋 1. Village settlement Dongsong natural village is part of Dongsong Administrative Village 东宋行政村. The population of Dongsong village is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Song 宋, Xu 许, Bao 鲍, Cai 蔡, Dong 董, and Zou 邹, of which the Song have the most people, at more than 700 people. The Xu are in second place, with approximately 500–600 people. The rest belong to miscellaneous surname groups. The Song 宋 emigrated from the Chengguan 城关 of Putian city 莆田. Currently, the Song are divided into three branches: Dingcuo 顶厝, Wuzu 五祖, and Xincuo 新厝 (Xiacuo 下厝), of which Wuzu has the most people, with approximately 300 people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it has already been taken down. The Xu 许 emigrated from the Xu of Kucuo 苦厝许 of Hushi 笏石. The Xu are divided into two branches: Toufang 头房and Weifang 尾房, of which the Weifang branch has more people, with approximately 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 (branched out from the Fushangong 福山宫 of Hushi 笏石), and was renovated in 1991. The main god: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. On 3/3, opera is performed for two days. There are usually three to five Daoist ritual masters 师公 invited to perform rites, but sometimes only one is invited. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Tiangonye 天公爷 (to whom villagers beg for rain 乞雨). 2) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 The secondary god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Xixian xinshê 西贤新社 (belongs to the Xu 许) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Shangyuan zushê 上元祖社 (belongs to the Song 宋) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元 帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (Xishê 西社), and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried in a procession around the village, and opera is performed for two days. Palm sedan chairs 摆棕轿 are used to carry the gods, and there is spirit medium writing or planchette writing (Fuji) 扶乩, but there are no spirit medium dances. As the gods pass by each household, each household asks the gods for a written character (usually, one or two characters are given to several households together). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held with two days of opera and three to five Daoist ritual masters conducting rites (although sometimes only one is invited). 9/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shangyuan zushê 上元祖社 is organized by the Song 宋. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixian xinshe 西贤新社 is organized by the Xu 许. 
V293 Xiting 西亭 1. Village settlement Xiting is part of Dongsong Administrative Village 东宋行政村. There are approximately 380 people living in Xiting village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Cai 蔡, and Zeng 曾, of which the Cai makes up approximately 2/3 of the population of the entire village. The Cai emigrated from Xianyou 仙游, but the exact year of the emigration is unknown. The Cai are divided into two branches: Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. Both branches have similar numbers of people. The Chen 陈 and the Zeng 曾 are distributed equally between Dingcuo and Xiacuo. There is no lineage genealogy or ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Jinshangong 金山宫 was built about 60 years ago. The temple is dedcated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Qilin dongshê 麒麟东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 is taken on procession through the village. Based on their age two people each year take turns to be the head organizer of the annual rituals and to act as the Fushou. Three Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to perform rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, with two days of opera. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited to conduct the rites. 
V294 Lingcuo 凌厝 1. Village settlement Lingcuo natural village is managed by Lingcuo Administrative Village 凌厝行政村. There are approximately 600 people living in Lingcuo village. It is divided into four production teams 生产队. The main livelihoods are stone cutting 打石, carpentry 木工, and hard labor. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Ling 凌 which makes up more than 90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 (more than 10 households) and the Weng 翁 (only one household). The Ling originally lived here. Later, the Ling branched out to Pingtan 平潭 and Baiyang 白洋. The Ling are divided into four branches: first branch 头房, second branch 二房 (Jiucuoli 旧厝里), third branch 三房 (Tianding 田顶), and fourth branch 四房 (Hougaowei 后高尾), of which the first branch has the most people, with approximately 200–300 people. There used to be three ancestral halls, but none exists today. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing zhongshê 新兴忠社 This shê has been transformed into the village hygienic clinic 村卫生所. The gods are now placed in the cafeteria 食堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Lingshan zumiao 灵山祖庙 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Jinfu sheren 金府舍人, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 3) Longanci 龙安祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The left hall is known as the Longtingdong 龙亭洞 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The right hall is called the Longmen shuyuan 龙门书院, and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4) Hualingsi 华林寺 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the statues of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jinfu sheren 金府舍人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wu jiangjun 吴将军, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried around the village in a procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Every year, six people are selected to be the ritual organizers/hosts (Fushou). 
V295 Xiagou 下沟 1. Village settlement Xiagou village is managed by Lingcuo Administrative Village 凌厝行政村. The village has a total population of only 200 people. The Chen 陈 makes up 70% of the population, while the Xue 薛 makes up 30%. 2. Surname groups (Chen 陈) The Chen of the village emigrated from two different places, and are called the Danfang 单房. One branch emigrated from Gouwei 沟尾 of Changjiang 长江, and this branch has more than 100 people. The other branch is from Lingcuo 凌厝, and they have less people. The Chen ancestral hall is in Gouwei 沟尾. 3. Village temples 1) Lingshangong 灵山宫 is the main overall temple, and belongs to Xiagou ritual territory 下沟境. The temple is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Shiwuma 十五妈, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xinxing zhongshê 新兴中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. No opera is performed. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the statue of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is carried around the village in a procession. Every year, two people are selected to lead the organization of ritual activities (Zuotou 做头). Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/6: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with two days of opera, or with performances of marionette plays. Two or three Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold rites. 
V296 Goujinyang 沟津洋 1. Village settlement Goujinyang village is managed by Lingcuo Administrative Village 凌厝行政村. The total population of the village is approximately 1000 people. The economic conditions are poor. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Mao 茅, Wu 武, Weng 翁, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈, of which the Mao and the Wu each make up 30% of the total population. According to local elders, the Mao emigrated from Xianyou 仙游 over 100 years ago. They first moved to Dongsong 东宋, then one household moved to Goujingyang. Now the Mao in this village are divided into four branches, but the number of people in each branch is unknown. There are no ancestral halls or lineage genealogies. 3. Village temples The village only has one shê, Baoanshê 保安社. It was built in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. There are no the birthday celebrations. 2) Anlutang 安芦堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims that there are 268 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the statues of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 are carried on procession. One marionette play is performed. Every year, three to four people take turns to be headsmen (Zuotou 做头). Neither Daoist ritual masters 师公 nor Three in One Scripture master 经师 are invited to perform rites. 
A059 Hengtang qijia (Hengtang seven jia ritual alliance) 横塘七甲 
V297 Hengtang 横塘 1. Village settlement Hengtang was also called Hengqu 横渠 in the Tang. Hengtang is located in between the Shangxia 上下渠大沟 main channel and the main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门前大沟 of the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Hengtangpu (police/ defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. In the Tang dynasty, the area already had a village called Hengtang, and the village currently has more than 4000 people. In the local temple ritual system, they are divided according to lineage and settlement into seven jia ritual associations. In the Ming, Hengtang was famous for its examination graduates, and the six lineages of the Peng 彭, Qiu 邱, Zhu 朱, Zhang 张, Lin 林, and Chen 陈 of this village together produced eighteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and thirty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Tianshu 4 (1460) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Lin lineage 林. In Ming Chenghua 12 (1476) the Fujian Provincial Administration Commissioner 福建布政使 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Qiu lineage 邱. There still survives a stele from Qianlong 59 (1794) inscribed with the words “Tangqing wujian 塘清武鉴”. The inscription reads further: “Tang yuanhe wuzi (808) Metropolitan Graduate and Editor in the Palace Library Zhang Shi 张实 bequeathed land to build a hall. Song Taiping Tianguo xuyin (808) General of the Palace Army Zhang Songhui 张忪恢 expanded it; Song Shaoxing renzi (1132) Grand Master for Closing Court Zhang Dounan 张斗南 rebuilt the hall.” The stone inscription composed by Peng Peng 彭鹏 in Kangxi 30 (1691), entitled 横塘彭氏宗祠春祀记 (Record of the Spring sacrifice at the Hengtang Peng main ancestral hall), is about the Peng Ancestral hall of this village (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:222, No. 192). In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the seven jia ritual associations of Hengtang were part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Hengtang now are the Zhang 张, Huang 黄, and Zheng 郑. According to the survey data from 1993, there are 400 Zhang households, approximately forty Huang households, approximately forty Zheng households, six Chen 陈 households, four Wu 吴 households, three Ruan 阮 households, one Zhu 朱 household and two Lin 林 households. The ancestor of the Zhang of Hengtang, Zhang Shigong 张实公, is said to be the ancestor that migrated to Fujian. It is said that a shê altar was built in the village even back during the Tang Dynasty. The Zhang later branched out to Putian 莆田, including Yaotai 瑶台, Shaban 沙坂, Shadi 沙堤, Shanxiang 善乡, Kengbing 坑柄, Yangdai 洋岱, Yangwei 洋尾, Chiqi 赤崎, Nanri 南日. Each year, there are seven people who are selected in rotation to be Fushou 福首: five come from the Zhang surname group, and one each from the Zheng and the Huang surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Hengqujing Wananshê 横渠境万安社 (Hengtang lishê 横塘里社): Renovated in 1986. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Zhou taibao 周太保. Right altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Chen dashi 陈大使. 2) Shilanggong 石廊宫: Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Left altar: Zhengshun shenghou 正顺圣侯. Right altar: Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 (Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯). 3) Baotanchan 宝坛阐: Its original site was the Gushetan 古社坛 of Baofushê 保福社, which was the ancestral shê (zushe) of Hengtang 横塘, Xintang 新塘, Tangtou 塘头, Xikeng 西坑, Xihu 西湖 and Gouwei 沟尾. The carved couplets on the pillars of the temple read: 法绍庐山资保福, indicating a connection with Lushan Daoism. There is also an extent stele from 1936 entitled “Stele Record of the reconstruction of the Precious Altar” (重建宝坛阐碑记). Worshipped on the middle altar are Wutan liesheng 五坛 列圣 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Jianlei yushi 监雷 御史, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wugong shenghou 伍公 圣侯. 4) Zhongshantang 中山堂 was built in Guangxu 27 (1901). This temple is now in its fifth generation of initiates now, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left altar: San feng zhen ren 三峰真人. On the right altar: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1100 initiates. 5) Qiushenmiao 邱神庙 was rebuilt in 1992 and is dedicated to Qiu laoye 邱老爷. 6) Qinglanting 清兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Linyundian 灵云殿 was rebuilt in recent years, and the main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 8) Ruyitang Buddhist hall 如义堂 was built in 1943. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 9) Shanfutang Buddhist hall 善福堂 was built in 1884. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 10) Xihusi Buddhist temple 西壶寺 was built in 1961. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–16, the five-jia of the Zhang 张 surname group take turns in inviting Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go on procession. Opera is performed for three days, and the joy candles 喜烛 are lit. On 1/17, the Xiazhujia 下洙甲 of the Zheng 郑 surname group invites Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go on procession. On 1/18, the Gouhanjia 沟汵甲 of the Huang 黄 surname group invites Wugong shenghou 吾公 圣侯 to go on procession. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. Spirit mediums seal the roadways (Fenglu 封路). Opera is performed for three days, and a Jiao ritual is conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2/10: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Wugong shenghou 伍公圣侯. Daoist ritual masters are invited to pray for the safety and health of the entire village in groups of five. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuozhenren 卓真人 is organized by Zhongshantang 中山堂. Marionette plays are performed. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/10: The celebration of Qiu laoye 邱老爷 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/4: The birthday celebration of Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10/29: The birthday celebration of Mengdage 孟大哥. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted at the Zhongshantang 中山堂 for the hungry ghosts. 11/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held.