V601 Baowei 保尾 1. Village settlement Baowei was originally called Banwei 坂尾 and was part of the Shatou Cangban Pu town ward 沙头苍坂铺. Baowei was a village at the southwest edge of Hanjiang which has now been absorbed into the city and is administered by the Hanxi Street Office 涵西街道办事处. 2. Surname groups Due to urbanization, it is difficult to track the movement of surname groups in this area. 3. Village temples 1) Shaban lishê 沙坂里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. 2) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 3) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Tianxianfu 天仙府 is dedicated to Huang jiangjun 黄将军. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Lianguian 莲桂庵 is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 6) Fulingong 绂麟宫 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, San furen 三夫 人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 7) Zhixintang 志心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Others worshipped include Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jiutian Wang dadi 九天王大帝, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Huang daren 黄大人. 8) Qingshantang Buddhist hall 庆善堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 9) Lianguiting Buddhist pagoda 连桂亭 was built in the late Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:204) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. On 1/12 the final night of Yuanxiao for this area is celebrated with a procession around the boundaries of the former village ward. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 2/10: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Fulingong 绂麟宫. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 2/26: The celebration of Jiutian Wang dadi 九天王大帝 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Huang jiangjun 黄将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 11/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific neighborhoods, or by specific temples, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 
V602 Tangbei 塘北 1. Village settlement Tangbei originally was part of the Yishan dongpu town ward 依山东铺 of Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里. 2. Surname groups Mostly the area was inhabited by families of the Yao surname group 姚. In recent times the area has become a developed area of mixed surname groups, administered by the Handong Street Office 涵东街 道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Xingeng zushê 新丰祖社 was first built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–1566). The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitiqan dasheng 齐天大圣 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. The secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2) Jingshesi Buddhist temple 精舍寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:205) 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江 (SJCDCB, 1992:7). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–11, candles 喜烛 are lit in the Xinfeng zushê 新丰祖社 and opera is performed. On 1/10, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is carried around the entire village in a procession. In the evening there is a lantern procession, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/15: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V603 Puwei 铺尾 1. Village settlement Puwei belonged to the Xinpai Pu town ward 新牌铺. Now Puwei village is managed by the Handong Street Affairs Office 涵东街 道办事处. The population of Puwei is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups There are several surnames in Puwei including the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘, the Kang 康, the Guo 郭, the Lin 林, and the Zhou 周. The Chen are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longjin zumiao 龙津祖庙 is dedicated to Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 and to Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Secondary gods include Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Linshui furen 临水夫人, and Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师. 2) Longjin wenming zushê 龙津文明祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Huye 虎爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/18: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held with three days of opera. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Linshui furen 临水夫人 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/16: The celebration of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is held. 9/13: The celebration of Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师 is held. 12/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups The Longjin zumiao 龙津祖庙 has a temple management committee 董事会. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V604 Cangran 苍然 1. Village settlement Canran was originally part of the Cangqianpu 仓前铺 ward of Hanjiang town 涵江. This area of the town is administered by the Handong Street Management Office 涵东街道办事处. 2. Surname groups This area was primarily inhabited by people of the Chen surname 陈, but now has a mixed surname population. 3. Village temples 1) Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 is also called the Chenyinggong Memorial Hall 陈应功纪念馆. The temple was rebuilt in 1994 on the site of the former Shengyunmiao 盛云庙 temple. The main god is Baosheng dadi 保生大帝, with Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/22 the gods of Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 are carried around the ritual territory while opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/14: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V605 Yanning 延宁 1. Village settlement Yanning belonged to the Yanning Pu (town ward) 延宁铺 in the past. Now Yanning is administered by the Handong Street Affairs office 涵东街道办事处. The population is unknown. 2. Surname groups There are Lin 林, Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑 surnames living in Yanning. The Lin are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yanninggong 延宁宫 contains the altar of the Xinyishê 新义社 which was built in Ming Jiajing 41 (1562) and rebuilt in 1922.The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Chongfudian 崇福殿 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Yuhuatang 玉华堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 7 lists 230 initiates. 4) Yonglinan Buddhist temple 涌林庵 was built during Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 5) ShishanBuddhist temple 石善寺 was built during Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:205). 6) Qingdetang Buddhist hall 清德堂 was built during Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZCG, 199:205). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Other subsidiary temples come to Yanning to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with three days of opera. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Yanninggong 延宁宫 has a temple management committee 董事会. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V606 Xiaxu 霞徐 1. Village settlement Xiaxu originally belonged to the Xiaxupu 霞徐铺 (town ward). Now Xiaxu is part of the Hanjiang urban area, and the population is unknown. Xiaxu is divided into five jing 五境 (territories) Xiaming 霞明, Xinlin 新林, Duanming 端明, Dingjie 顶街, and Longdong 龙东. The village preserves the temple inscription composed in Daoguang 9 (1829) by Lin Daoheng 林道亨 entitled 重建昭应宫记 Records of the Restorations to the Temple of Brilliant Responses (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:301, No. 265). 2. Surname groups Many surnames live together in this area, but the Chen 陈 are the predominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingrenshê 兴仁社 is within the Shunjimiao 顺济庙 and the Yulingong 毓麟宫. These temples are referred to as the Xiaxugong 霞徐宫, and it is the main temple of the five ritual territories of Xiaxu 五境 总宫. A official stele 示禁碑 dated in Qing Jiaqing 12 (1807) is preserved in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Several stelae relating to the Hanjiang Tianhougong were originally preserved in this temple, but some were later moved to the Hanjiang Stelae Garden. The stone inscriptions about this temple include the Qianlong 15 (1750) 敕封护国庇民弘仁普济天后圣母东甌香灯 文 (Proclamation on the incense and lamp-oil --- --- --- of the eastern hall of the temple of the imperially enfeoffed Divine Matron, Empress of Heaven, who universally saves, extends her mercy, protects the people, and guards the nation) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:231, No. 201), the Qianlong 28 (1763) 兴安会馆香灯会碑记 (Stele recording the Incense and Lamp Association of the Xingan Native place Association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:244, No. 210), the Jiaqing 12 (1807) 涵江天后宫奉宪示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions by imperial decree within the Hanjiang Temple of the Empress of Heaven) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:269, No. 234), and the Guangxu 2 (1876) 重修兴安会馆碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Xinghua native-place association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:331, No. 296). 2) Tianfeigong 天妃宫 is called the old temple, Jiugong 旧宫, and is said to have been founded in the Southern Song. A Ming stele with a star chart 星 图 and early Qing murals 清初壁画 survive in the temple. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sihai longwang 四 海龙王, and Yangong 晏公. 3) Yidetang Buddhist hall 义德堂 was built in the late Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 4) Jituoshan Buddhist temple 即陀山 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Tianfeigong 天妃宫 which takes Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession around the entire region. Opera is performed for three days. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 9/30: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Three days of opera are performed. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by a specific temple, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups Each year each of the five ritual territories 五境 draw divination sticks to select one Fushou 福首 each. On 7/19 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Middle Prime is held and on 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are also held. 
V607 Lindun 林墩 1. Village settlement Lindun originally belonged to Gongxiapu (town ward) 宫下铺. Now Lindun belongs to the Lindun administrative village area 林墩行政村. The population of Lindun is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups There are Lin 林, Fang 方, and Lu 卢 surname groups in Lindun, but the Lin are the dominant group. 3. Village temples Cangranjing Aoshanshê 苍然境鳌山社 is linked to the Mingdetang 明德堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Jixiang jiangjun 吉祥将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 records 475 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 people take part in Gongxia’s 宫下 Yuanxiao procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with ten days of opera. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups The initiates of the Three in One temple 三一教门 in the village make up the majority of the village population. Each year they go to the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 to present incense 进香. 
A133 Gangtou sancun (Gangtou three village ritual alliance) 港头三村 The three village ritual alliance of Gangtou is located hear the Xingangtou Sluice-gate 新港斗门 on the southwest edge of Hanjiang city. This area was part of the Gangtoupu 港头铺, Qianlinou 前林铺 and Tianwei pu 田尾铺 police/defense units of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Xingang 新港 was settled. In the early Qing this village branched off into Gangtou 港头, Qianlin 前林 and Tianwei 田尾. These villages are now managed by the Hanxi Administrative Village 涵西行政村. The Taishifu 太师府 temple, located in Gangwei 港尾 village, is the main temple of the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Each year on lunar 1/18 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated, and the three villages hold a joint procession of the gods. 
V608 Gangtou 港头 1. Village settlement The village of Gangtou has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Longgangjing xinyoushê 龙港境新有社 is dedicated to Zhunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and the patron of Gangtou three village ritual alliance the temple, Tanyuezhu ZhenYiji 檀越主郑颐吉. Wen Tianxiang 文天祥 is said to have written the characters giving the name of the temple. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18, the villagers of Gangtou join with Tianwei 田尾 and Qianlin 前林 in a joint procession. Spirit mediums 神 童 are possessed by the gods. On 2/6, spirit mediums are invited from nearby villages to carry out the fire gathering ritual 采花仪式 (feats of imperviousness to pain as demonstrated by standing bare-chested in the flames of a massive Roman candle). Opera is performed for three days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of the Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 9/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V609 Tianwei 田尾 1. Village settlement The village of Tianwei has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Wu 吴, Wang 王, Huang 黄, Lin 林 and Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Longtianjing xingxianshê 龙田境兴贤社, Taishifu 太师府, is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. This is the main temple of the three village alliance (see above). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the villagers of Tianwei join with those of Gangtou 港头and Qianlin 前林 in a joint procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with two days of opera. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V610 Qianlin 前林 1. Village settlement The village of Qianlin has approximately 500 residents. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are Zheng 郑, Chen陈, Guo 郭 and Li 李. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected according to lineage in rotation to direct the ritual activities of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing xinyishê, Tianhougong 钱江境新义 社天后宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin Shenghou 金圣侯, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the villagers of Qianlin join with those of Gangtou 港头 and Tianwei 田尾 in the collective celebration of Yuanxiao, and in a common procession of the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two days of opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 10/17: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Four fushou 福首 are selected in rotation according to surname group each year. 
A134 Tiancuo wucun (Tiancuo five village ritual alliance) 田厝五村 The Tiancuo five village ritual alliance is located at the central node of the irrigation system connecting Hanjiang 涵江 to Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. This area was part of the Tiancuopu 田厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the early Qing, this area was divided into “seven mounds”, and it currently includes the five villages of Zhanggongdun 张公墩, Sudun 苏墩, Ludun 卢墩, Weicuo 尾厝, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. The Xinxingshê 新兴社 temple, located in Zhanggongdun 张公墩, is the founding shê of the Seven Mounds 七墩祖社, while the Qixing zumiao 齐 兴租庙 temple in Sudun 苏墩 village is the main temple of the five village ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the villages of the alliance goes to the Xinxingshê to present incense 进香 and invite the gods 请神. On lunar 1/6, the Wu daren 伍大人 and Sun daren 孙大人 of Qixing zumiao 齐兴祖庙 are carried in a procession around the five villages of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the five villages of Tiancuo were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V611 Zhanggongdun 张公墩 1. Village settlement Zhanggongdun belongs to the Lindun Administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 180 people. 2. Surname groups The are five surname groups, the Hu 胡, the Lin 林, the Zhou 周, the Zhang 张, and the Lu 卢. The Hu are the dominant surname. 3. Village temples 1) Qiongtianjing Xinxingshê 琼田境新兴社 is shared with Sudun 苏墩, Ludun 卢墩, Weicuo 尾厝, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. The temple was built in 1888, and was restored in 1982 and again in 2002. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Jishanci 积善祠 is dedicated to Liu daren 刘大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Each of the partner villages comes to present incense 进香. Movies are shown at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/8: The celebration of Liugong daren 刘公大人 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera and Daoist masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held, and marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. Each year new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
V612 Sudun 苏墩 1. Village settlement Sudun village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The two surnames are Su 苏 and Yu 俞. The Su are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples Qiongtianjing Qixing zumiao 琼田境齐兴祖庙 was built in the early Qing dynasty. The main gods are Wu daren 伍大人, Zhang daren 张大人, Sun daren 孙大人, and Zhu daren 朱大人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Peng tongzi 彭童子, and Fu tongzi 傅童子. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, Wu daren 伍大人 and Sun daren 孙大人 are taken on a procession through the entire ritual alliance. On 1/16, the villagers also go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The celebration of Wu daren 伍大人 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of the Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 is held, and opera is sponsored for a day in rotation with the other villages in the alliance. 9/15: The celebration of Sun daren 孙大人 is held with two days of opera, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups The Qixing zumiao 齐兴祖庙 has five spirit mediums 神童五人, and has completed a full series of guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held, and marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. Each year three new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
V613 Weicuo 尾厝 1. Village settlement Weicuo village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 80 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surnames in the village, the Su 苏 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Qiongtianjing Xinglongmiao 琼田境兴龙庙 is shared by all the villages in the ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qiongtianjing Beijidian 琼田境北极殿 was built in recent years and belongs to all the villages in the ritual alliance. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 goes on a procession through all the villages of the alliance. On 1/16, the villagers go to Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, together with Ludun 卢墩village, and opera is performed for one day. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V614 Ludun 卢墩 1. Village settlement Ludun village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups Everyone is surnamed Lu 卢. 3. Village temples Tudimiao 土地庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held together with Weicuo 尾厝, and one day of opera is performed. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V615 Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement Tianzhongyang village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups Everyone is surnamed Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Daxingmiao 大兴庙 and Dongyuedian 东岳殿 is dedicated to Zhuzheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 villagers go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. On 1/17 Zhuzheng dadi 注生大帝 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are taken on a procession around all the villages in the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Each year three new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
A135 Tangtou qijing (Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance) 塘头七境 The Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance is located on the eastern side of the Jieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Tangtou dongtingpu 塘头洞庭铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 延兴里. In the early Qing, the villages of Tangtou 塘头 and Shenpu 沈埔 were settled. Currently, the villages of this area are managed by the following Administrative Village committees: Sangu 三股, Gangli 巷利, Xinpu 新坡, Huangcuo 黄厝, Tanwei 潭尾 and Houyang 后洋行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. The Fuxingshê 福兴社 and the connected Fuxinggong 福兴宫, located in Tangwei 塘尾 village, is the central temple 总宫 of the Tangtou sevenfold alliance. Additional sets of the statues of the main gods of each of the seven she-altars of the allied ritual territories are also worshipped in the main temple, and each shê organizes offerings, rituals, and opera at the main temple on the birthdays of their own gods. During the Yuanxiao festivities, each of these villages goes to the main temple to invite its gods back to their village. On 2/2 a general Yuanxiao is held. The main temple has spirit mediums who are possessed by each of the gods of the seven shê. They have held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions repeatedly, in 1983, 1986, 1999, 1993, and in 2002. Houyang village’s 后洋村 Beishê (north she) 北社 was originally part of the ritual alliance, but nowadays it has separated off from the main temple, and does not take part in the rituals activities of the alliance. The Fuxinggong preserves a stele composed in Jiaqing 23 (1818) by Li Mingding 李铭鼎 entitled 重建颉塘福兴宫碑 (Stele on the rebuilding of the Rising Wealth Temple of Jietang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:293, No. 256). In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Tangtou was part of the black banner alliance. 
V616 Sangu 三股 1. Village settlement Sangu village has a population of approximately 2000 people, and is divided in three neighborhoods, the Shang, Zhong, and Xiashê 上, 中下社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑 with 800 people, the 陈 with 700 people, and the Feng 冯 with 300人 people. The Zheng moved to Sangu in the Song dynasty from Baisha 白沙 in Putian 莆田. The Chen moved to Sangu in the Ming from Yongchun 胡洋 Huyang 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshangshê, zhongshê, and xiashê 湖东境福兴上社, 中社, 下社, are all within the Xingyundian 兴云殿. The temple was rebuilt in 1984. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Zhongjun 中军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Xingtinggong 兴亭宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 3) Miaodayun 妙大云 belongs to the seven-shê alliance of Tangtou, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhongben shuyuan 中本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Sangu villagers go to the Fuxinggong in 福兴宫 Tangwei to invite Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Zhongjun 中军 to go on a procession through their village territory. Opera is performed for two to three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Sangu participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed. 6/10: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/21: The celebration of Zongjun 中军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/25: The celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 9/20: The celebration of Dage 大哥 and Erge 二哥 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Sangu participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three shê of Sangu select Fushou 福首 to rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V617 Xinpo 新坡 1. Village settlement Xinpo was originally called Shenpu 沈埔. Xinpo village has a population of over 3000 people. The main livelihood is tile making and labor in the kilns. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. The are also the Zhang 张 and the Yi 蚁 minor surname groups. The Zheng moved to Xinpo from Qiandai in Putian city 前埭, and have divided into five lineage branches. There is a Zheng lineage ancestral house 郑氏祖厝 in Xinpo. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing nanshê 湖东境福兴南社 is inside the Xinpotang (also called the Ruiyundian) 新坡堂(瑞云殿) the main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Lushi furen 卢氏夫人. 2) Xunzhong shuyuan 顺中书院 was rebuilt in 2006 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, and Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 95 initiates. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Xinpo goes to the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invited Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 back to the village to go on a procession, while opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xinpo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/22: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Lushi furen 卢氏夫人 is held. 6/16: The celebration of Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xinpo has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual specialists of whom four are Daoist masters. Xinpo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year each lineage branch selects the Fushou 福首 who will rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V618 Xiangli 巷利 1. Village settlement Xiangli is also know as Hanli 汉利. Gangli has a population of over 1200 people. The village was founded in the Ming dynasty. The main livelihood comes from working in the tile kiln factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Huang 黄, who came from Huangxiang 黄巷, and have divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing lishê, Maolinyuan 湖东境福兴 利社, 茂林园. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Chengong zushi 陈公祖师. 2) Shuntian shuyuan 顺天书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, and Taihuashan 泰华山. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records twenty-eight initiates. 3) Pingtianci 平天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Chengong zushi 陈公祖师. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records thirty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Xiangli goes to Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, and Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君 back to the village to go on a procession. Opera is performed for two days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xiangli participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Marionette plays are performed. 8/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Gangli participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three lineage branches select the Fushou 福首 by rotation according to age. On 10/15 the 下元普渡 xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V619 Tanwei 潭尾 1. Village settlement Tanwei has a population of approximately 1800 people. The main livelihood is working in tile kilns and factories. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yang 杨 and the Wu 吴. The Yang moved to Tanwei from Sangu 三股 and have formed three lineage branches. There is a Yang ancestral hall 杨氏祠堂. The Wu moved from Daili 埭里 and have formed two lineage branches. There is a Wu ancestral chamber 吴氏祖厅. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshê, Fuxinggong 湖东境福兴社, 福兴宫 is the main temple of the Tangtou seven-shê alliance 塘头七社总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Zhonglie (Tiangong) yuanshuai 忠烈(田公)元帅, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Hudongjing Fuxing xishê 湖东境福兴西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Shundetang 顺德堂 contains the altar of Fuxing xishê 福兴西社. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 4) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 109 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Tanwei villagers go to the Fuxinggon 福兴宫 to invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 to go on a procession through the village. Opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Tanwei participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tanwei participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year the lineage branches select the Fushou 福首 by rotation according to age. 
V620 Huangcuo 黄厝 1. Village settlement Huangcuo has a population of approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is working in kilns and tile factories. 2. Surname groups The only surname is the Huang 黄, who moved from Huangxiang 黄巷 and have divided into four lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjin Fuxiingdongshê 湖东境福兴东社 is within the Yuxingtang 玉兴堂. The temple was rebuilt in 1984 and the main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Guigu xianshi 鬼谷仙师, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 115 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Huangcuo villagers go to Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 back to the village to go on a procession. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist masters conduct a pinganjiao 平安醮. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Huangcuo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held 8/15: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Huangcuo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. On 10/15 the 下元普渡 xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V621 Houyang 后洋 1. Village settlement The population of Houyang village is approximately 2000 people. The main livelihood is brick and tile making. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 surname group is dominant. They moved to Houyang from Chongqin 冲沁, and have divided into the following four lineage branches: Dacheng 大埕, Gongbian 宫边, Weicuo 尾厝, and Houcuo 后厝. 3. Village temples 1) Houyangjing Hudong beishê 后洋境湖东北社 is within the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Sijiang zhenren 司鉴真人. 2) Shiyitang 师义堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records seventy-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each household to xing dao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, the gods of Fuxinggong 福兴宫 are taken on a procession around the village, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 7/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/15: The celebration of Sijiang zhenren 司鉴真人. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Fushou 福首 are selected, in rotation, on the basis of age. 
A136 Tangdong Sancun (Tangdong three village ritual alliance) 塘东三村 The Tangdong three village ritual alliance is located on the eastern side of the Xieyangtang 颉洋塘 Reservoir. This area was part of the Tangtou dongtingpu 塘头洞庭铺 and the Puweipu 埔尾铺 of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Tangdong 塘东 was settled. In the early Qing, this village divided into the three villages of Dongting 洞庭, Puwei 埔尾 and Linbing 林柄. These villages are managed by the Administrative Village committees of Dongting 洞庭 and Linbing 林柄行政村. The Gutang shexue 古塘社学 temple, located in Puwei 埔尾 village, was originally the founding she-altar of the three village alliance. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Formerly the three villages collectively celebrated Yuanxiao together, but currently they no longer hold joint processions and rituals. Instead, they have joined the collective procession of the Tangtou thirteen jia ritual alliance 塘头十三甲. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 2 (1822) by Huang Jingsi 黄进思 entitled 重修古塘社学碑 (Record of the restoration of the village earth god temple and school of Gutang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:296, No. 260). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three villages of Tangdong were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V622 Dongting 洞庭 1. Village settlement The village of Dongting has a population of over 4000 people. The village was established in the Song dynasty. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Yao 姚, the Liu 刘, and the Xu 徐. The Yao 姚 moved to the village from Chongqin 冲沁 and have divided into six branches. There is a Yao lineage ancestral hall 姚氏宗祠. The Liu 刘 moved to the village in Qing Kangxi 25 (1686) from Aoshan 鳌山. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Huposhê 湖东境湖坡社 is merged into the Dongtinggong 洞庭宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Secondary gods include Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Wuan shengwang 武按 圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Fumo yuanshuai 伏魔元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Dong shizhe 东使者, Xi shizhe 西使者, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Chuanjing zumiao 传经祖庙( also known as the Zhanggongfu 张公府), belongs to the Liu 刘, and branched off from Aoshan 鳌山分炉. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Lidai gongma 历代公妈. 3) Huancuiting 环翠亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 迦兰. 4) Yulinfu 毓麟府 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Yuhuatang 玉华堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shijiawenfo 释伽文佛, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Lü Dongbin 吕洞宾. 6) Judetang 居德堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On ¼, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 with three days of opera. On 1/14–15, the Liu 刘 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xing dao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. On 1/15–16, the Yao 姚 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Three days of opera are performed. 4/17: The celebration of Fumo yuanshuai 伏魔元帅 is held 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. 6/26: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups In 1989 the first guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session was held, and there are now eight spirit mediums 神童. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V623 Linbin 林柄 1. Village settlement Linbin village has a population of approximately 1500 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Shangcuo 上厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. The village has already been transformed into an industrial park 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. They moved to Linbin from Putian city and have divided into ten branches. There are also the Yang 杨 and the Zheng 郑 surname groups. Originally, there were the Chen 陈 and the Gong 龚 households, but due to marriage ties they have changed their surnames to Lin. 3. Village temples 1) Yulinjing Guoanshê 玉林境国安社 is linked with the Yulingong 玉林宫. The temple was built in Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Jin jiangjun 金将军, and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built in the Republican period, and is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shengjou 金公圣侯 and Yulin shengmu 毓麟圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 and the first opera of the year 头场戏 is performed. On 1/11– 12, Shangcuo 上厝 takes Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 on a procession through its territory. At night there are linked lantern processions 圈灯, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/12–13, Xiacuo 下厝 takes Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 on a procession through its territory. At night there are linked lantern processions 圈灯, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16, the entire village celebrates a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 and the spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to caihua 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and opera is performed for three days. On 2/2, the toufu 头福 (first good fortune) rites are performed, and each household goes to the temple to worship. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. 5/3: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/13: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. All of these events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days each time, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Linbin village has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. Currently there are six spirit mediums in the village, and they have gone through guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. 
V624 Puwei 埔尾 1. Village settlement The village of Puwei has a population of approximately 700 people. The village has already been transformed into an industrial park. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Yao 姚 and the Ruan 阮. There are also Chen 陈 and Li 李 surnames in the village. The Yao 姚 moved here from Fuqing 福清, while the Ruan 阮 moved to Puwei from Putian 莆田 city. The Ruan have divided into two lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Nipojing Gutang shexue 霓坡境古塘社学 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of linked lanterns. On 1/19, the general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated 总元宵 by carrying Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 in a procession around the village. Opera is performed for three days and Daoist ritual masters conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/26: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held. A delegation goes to the Jiangkou Dongyueguan 江口东岳观 to request incense fire 香火. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole, Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Each year the Yao 姚 and the Ruan 阮 each select two Fushou 福首 in rotation based on age. There is a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their assistants. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions have been held three times. 
A137 Jindun sicun (Jindun four village ritual alliance) 金墩四村 The Yangzhong four village ritual alliance is located to the east of Hanjiang in the intermediate zone linking Hanjiang’s irrigation system to the coastal region. This area was part of the Jindun Sucuopu 金墩苏厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the village of Jindun 金墩 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Sucuo 苏厝 and Yangzhong 洋中 branched off. Currently these villages are managed by the Fangshan Administrative Village 芳山行政村. In the Xianziding 仙仔顶 neighborhood of Jindun 金墩 village there once stood the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙 temple, which is said to have been built in Song Gaozong’s reign in Shaoxing 21 (1151). This was the main temple 总宫 of Guishan 龟山 (Yangzhong 洋中), Meishan 眉山 (Sucuo 苏厝 and Zhongdun 中敦) and Jinshan 金山 (now Jindun 金墩). This temple was torn down in Qianlong 26 (1761) and divided into the three temples of Guishangong 龟山宫, Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and Jinshangong 金山宫. Jindun four village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four villages of Jindun were part of the white banner alliance. 
V625 Sucuo 苏厝 1. Village settlement Sucuo village is part of the Fangshan administrative village area 芳山行政村. The village population is over 3280 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方, the Zheng 郑, the Zeng 曾, and the Su 苏. The Fang 方 came from Hunan 湖南. The founding ancestor was an official in Youtang near Putian, and later descendants fled from pirate invasions to Sucuo village. There is a Duqingci 笃庆祠 Fang ancestral hall, and a lineage genealogy 族谱. The Zheng 郑 came from Jiaji 夹漈 and first moved to Duotou 哆头 before moving to Sucuo village. There is a Zheng ancestral hall 郑氏祠堂. The Zeng 曾 came from Sishui 泗水. The Su 苏 came from Zhuangsutian 庄苏田, and are divided into the Shangsu 上苏 and Xiasu 下苏 lineage branches. They have preserved a lineage genealogy 族谱. 3. Village temples 1) Meishanjing Zhaolinggong 眉山境昭灵宫 contains the altar of the Xinganshê 兴安社, which belongs to the Zheng 郑, Fang 方, and Zeng 曾, and the Baoguang longshoushê 葆光隆寿社, which belongs to the Su 苏 and the Zeng 曾. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, the Xinganshê 兴安社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Baoguang longshoushê 葆光隆寿社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Zhou daye 周大爷, Yang erye 杨二爷, and Huye 虎爷. 2) Shenglingmiao 声灵庙 is the center of the spirit medium tanban 坛班 altar association. Here mediums are possessed and spirit writing is transmitted by planchette. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshi gutan 天师古坛, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. The temple has an ancient altar of the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. 3) Fubentang 复本堂 belongs to the Wuben branch of the Three in One 悟本派. The main gods is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhang Tianshi 张天师. 4) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is located outside the village, and was built in Qing Guangxu period (1875–1908). The temple is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Beichengong 北辰宫 is located outside the village, and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6) Fumaci 驸马祠 is dedicated to Yufeng Yinglie shenghou 御封英烈 圣侯. Secondary gods include Yawei jiangjun 押卫将军, and Libu shilang 吏部侍郎. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭, organized by the Fang 方, and the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. On 1/6, the Fang 方take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/7, the Zeng 曾 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8, the Su 苏 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/9, the Zheng 郑 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18–19, the Shenlingmiao 神灵庙 spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession around the entire village, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. The spirit mediums 神童 of nearby villages are invited to caihua 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for four or five days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/16: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of the Baoguan longshoushê 葆光隆寿社 is organized by the Su 苏. 8/20: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinganshê 兴安社 is organized by the Zeng 曾, Zheng 郑, and Fang 方. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by neighborhood or by lineage, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are over 300 Three in One initiates in Sucuo village. The chairmen of the temple committee are a group of over twenty representatives. Over eighty people are involved in regular scripture explication and recitation. The Shenglingmiao 声灵庙 has a tanban 坛班 altar association with ten spirit mediums 神童, but they do not practice guanjie 关戒 trainings. 
V626 Zhongdun 中墩 1. Village settlement Zhongdun belongs to the Fangshan administrative village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are Zheng 郑, Zeng 曾, and Su 苏. 3. Village temples 1) Sushanjing Beichengong 苏山境北辰宫 contains the Xinzudong 新祖洞. This temple branched off from the Zhaolinggong of Sucuo 苏厝昭灵宫. At first it was only an earth god shrine next to the kilns, but in recent years it has been rebuilt and expanded. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–10, the villagers take part in Sucuo’s 苏厝 villages processions, carrying the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, the villagers again take part in Sucuo’s 苏厝 processions, and their roadways are also sealed against demonic influences 封路. They also invite Daoist masters to perform rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Zhongdun takes part in the Sucuo zhaolingong 苏厝昭 灵庙 tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their assistants. There is no practice of guanjie spirit medium training. 
V627 Jindun 金墩 1. Village settlement Jindun belongs to the Fangshan administrative village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Kang 康 surname groups in Jindun village. 3. Village temples 1) Jinshanjing Xining zushê 金山境熙宁祖社 is inside the Jinshangong 金山宫. This temple was built in Qing Qianlong 26 (1761), when it branched off from the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙. There is a stele commemorating repairs from Qing Xianfeng 10 (1860) in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (two gods), Houtu furen 后土夫人 (two gods), and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuan shuai 康公元帅, Gegong dajiang 葛公大将, Fuhu jiangjun 伏虎将军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Wulugong 五路宫 is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 8/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 11/6: The celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Jindun has three spirit mediums 神童. There is no practice of guanjie 关戒. 
V628 Yangzhong 洋中 1. Village settlement Yangzhong village is managed by the Fangshan Administrative Village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 1200 people living in around 260 households. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Liu 刘, who came from Fuzhou 福州. The Liu ancestral tombs are in Hanjiang and there is a 1924 stele protecting the tomb site 民国十三年县知事示禁碑. 3. Village temples 1) Guishanjing Xining zushê 龟山境熙宁祖社 is inside the Guishangong 龟山宫, which is also called the Taishifu 太师府. This temple was built in Qianlong 26 (1761) when it branched off from the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Shizhe zhongjun 侍者中军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with five opera performances over three days 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with five opera performances over three days 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with two or three days of opera. 9/27: The celebration of Magong taishi 马公太师 and Tiegong taishi 铁公 太师 is held with two or three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Yangzhong has three spirit mediums 神童. There is no guanjie 关戒. 
A138 Tiezao liujia (Tiezao six jia ritual alliance) 铁灶六甲 
V629 Tiezao 铁灶 1. Village settlement Tiezao was originally called Qixingdun 七星墩 and Zheshan 哲山, and it was commonly referred to as the Shisanshan tiezao “十三山铁灶”. Tiezao is located in between the northern irrigated plain 北洋 and the Jiuliyang 九里洋 irrigated plain, in hilly country. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Xieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Tiezaopu 铁灶铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli subcanton 望江里. The village of Tiezao was settled in the early Qing. Currently Tiezao is both an administrative village and a natural village. The total village population is over 6000 people. The temple ritual system is divided into five neighborhood ritual associations (jia 甲) on the basis of different surnames. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Tiezao was part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈, the Wu 吴, and the Zheng 郑 are the major surnames. The are also the minor surnames of the Lin 林, the Weng 翁, the Cheng 程, the Zhang 张, and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Xinxingshê 钱塘境新兴社 was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 11 (1746), and rebuilt again in 1980. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Huban dashen 虎班大神, Tang dajiang 唐大将, He dajiang 葛大将, Zhou dajiang 周大将, Su dajiang 苏大将, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Longtian yuanshuai 龙天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qiuer yuanshuai 邱二元帅, Dong er yuanshuai Tiezao six jia ritual alliance 董二元帅, Li Ming dajiang 李明大将, Jinyu ertong 金玉儿童, Zhu sheren 朱舍人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 2) Qiantangjing Dongyueguan 钱塘境东岳观 was built in 1984. This temple branched off from the Jiangkou 江口 Dongyueguan 东岳观. The main god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Xi qiwang 西齐王, Dong pingwang 东平王, Bingling gong 炳灵公, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, and Cao jiangjun 曹将军. 3) Fulingong 绂麟殿 is dedicated to Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Huang Cang 黄仓, and Bai Cang 白仓. 4) Qiantangjing Sanguantang 钱塘境三官堂 is dedicated to Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shijia rulai 释迦如来, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Enshantang 恩山堂 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, and Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣. 6) Chongshengci 崇圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tianguan dadi 天官大帝, Diguan dadi 地官大帝, Shuiguan dadi 水官大帝, Xiaosheng xianshi 肖圣仙师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhangsheng xianshi 张圣先师, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, and Daye 大爷. 7) Yushantang 玉山堂 (also called the Beigushê 北古社) is dedicated to Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8) Yushengdian 玉神殿 and the Zhengyitang 正一堂 are dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Chenshi xiannü 陈氏仙女, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 9) Kunyuantang 坤元堂 was built in Qing Guangxu guimao (1903). The main god is Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天. 10) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 11) Qinghuage 清华阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 12) Qiongdaoci 琼岛祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenwu shengren 文武圣人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. 13) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 14) Enshanjing Dongqingsi 恩山境东清寺 is said to have been founded in the Ming dynasty and was repaired in the Guangxu period. A pillar from Qing Guangxu yiwei (1895) survives in the temple. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. The right hand hall has Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Meng jiangjun 孟将军, Qijiangjun 齐将军, and Zhenshen daye 正神大爷. 15) Shengmingci 圣明祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 240 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Chen 陈 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Wu 吴 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the Chen of Dingcuo 顶厝陈 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13, the Zheng and the Lin of Niulu 牛路郑林 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14, the Zhang 张 and the Xu 许 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, Chengcuo 程厝 and Wengcuo 翁厝 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu shengfei 法主圣妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhongtian yuanshuai 中天元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 are taken on a procession through the entire village. Opera is performed for ten to fifteen days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held and marionette plays are performed. 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Chongshengci 崇圣祠. 2/5: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held and marionette plays are performed. 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held. The celebration of 注生大帝 is held and a procession goes around the entire village, and opera is performed for thirty days. 4/15: The celebration of Cao jiangjun 曹将军 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. 5/12: The celebration of Bingling gong 炳灵公 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 5/15: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is held 6/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held. 7/13: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 7/18: The celebration of Dong pingwang 东平王 is held. 8/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed both before and after for thirty days. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 9/19: The celebration of Xi Qiwang 西齐王 is held. 10/24: The celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is held 10/26: The celebration of Huang jiangjun 黄将军 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinxingshê 新兴社 has spirit mediums 神童, but has not held guanjie 关戒 training sessions. The Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Dongyueguan 东岳观 have temple management committee 董事会 on which representatives from each neighborhood have a voice. The village has its own Puxian opera troupe 莆仙戏剧团. 3/28: 
A139 Wencuo sanshê (Wencuo three shê ritual alliance) 温厝三社 The Wencuo three shê ritual alliance is located in hilly country between the northern irrigated plain and the Jiuliyang irrigation system. Water for irrigation is primarily drawn from springs on Nangshan mountain 囊山. This area was part of the Wenyuanpu 温院舖 (police/defense unit) of the Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the villages of Yuanbian 院边 and Huangdachen 黄大埕 were settled. In the early Qing, the village of Wencuo 温厝 branched off. These villages are now managed by the Tiezao 铁灶 and Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to the original shê-altars and temples into three shê ritual associations. Wencuo three shê ritual alliance Currently, the Sanshêgong 三社宫 temple, located in Linbin 林柄 (which is now an industrial park), is the main temple of the three shê alliance 三社 总宫. The Sanshêgong 三社宫 was first built in the early Qianlong period. Recently, due to the creation of an industrial park, the temple was torn down and rebuilt in a new location. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the dependant villages will come to the temple to request incense fire. On 2/25 the celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held, and on 7/23 there is a celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 10/6 there is a celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is marked by two days of opera, and these events are organized by the Sanshêgong temple management committee. 
V630 Wencuo 温厝 1. Village settlement Wencuo belongs to the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is 317 people living in 74 households. 2. Surname groups The Yang 杨 are the dominant surname. The Yang of Tangtou all came from this village. 3. Village temples 1) Jiaoshanjing Zhongyingshê 蛟山境钟英社 within the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 2) Fudetang 福德堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods are Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners of Sanshêgong 三社宫社 are taken to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/24, spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession around the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/12: The celebration of Daye 大爷 is held. 11/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. There are seventeen older generation spirit mediums 神童 and assistants, and 41 new generation mediums and assistants. In recent years there has been one guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session. 
V631 Huangdating 黄大庭 1. Village settlement Huangdating was originally known as Huangdacheng 黄大埕. The village was managed by the Tiezao Administrative Village 铁灶 行政村. In 1992, the village was transformed into an industrial part. There are some 67 households of Huangdating villagers, with over 300 people, living in the neighboring villages, but they still maintain their village rituals. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups in the village, the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 is the major surname. 3. Village temples Fengshanjing Guoanshê 凤山境国安社 is within the Fengshangong 凤山宫. The temple was torn down and rebuilt in a new location in 1994. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi xiangu 陈氏仙姑, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the incense burners of the Sanshêgong 三社宫 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/24: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation from among the dozen or so households still living in the vicinity of the temple. 
V632 Liuan 刘安 1. Village settlement Liuan was originally made up of the villages of Yuanbian 院边 and Qianzheng 前郑. In th late Ming, these villages were destroyed by pirate invasions, and the two villages later merged to become Liuan. Liuan belongs to the Tiezao Administrative Village 铁灶行政村. The current village population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are the following surname groups in Liuan: the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, the Guan 关, the He 何, and the Zhou 周. The Chen and the Zheng are the major surname groups. The Chen came from Yuanbian 院边, and the Zheng came from Qianzheng 前郑. 3. Village temples 1) Meipojing Tonglinggong 梅坡境通灵宫 contains the Liuanshê 刘安社, and belongs to the He 何 and Zhou surname groups 周. The main gods are Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大 将, Majia jiangjun 马贾将军, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong shengjun 萧公圣君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Jinyu tongzi 金玉童子, and Zhu sheren 朱舍人. 2) Qianzhengjing Qianzhengshê 前郑境前郑社 belongs to the Zheng 郑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃. 3) Beijidian 北极殿 was built in Qing Guangxu 5 (1879) and was restored in 1989. This temple belongs to the Zheng 郑, the He 何, and the Zhou 周. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Songpojing Shengxingshê 松坡境胜兴社 is linked to the Tengyungong 腾云宫 and belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇 大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the incense burners of the Meiposhê 梅坡社 and the Shengxingshê 胜兴社 are separately carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22, spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession through the entire village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold Jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/5: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. 4/12: The celebration of Chenggong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and earth 天地 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/6: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Liuanshê 刘安社 and the Qianzhengshê 前郑社 is organized by the Zheng 郑, He 何, and Zhou 周. 8/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shengxingshê 胜兴社 is organized by the Chen 陈. 12/10: The celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the neigbourhood or lineage group specified, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis within the specific territorial or lineage unit. 5. Ritual Groups Both the Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 and the Tengyungong 腾云宫 have spirit mediums 神童, but there have not been any guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. 3/3: 
A140 Houguo sishê (Houguo four shê ritual alliance) 后郭四社 The Houguo four shê ritual alliance is located at the border between the northern irrigated plain and the Jiuliyang irrigated plain. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the channels of the Nananbei 南安陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Tiantou Houguopu 田头后郭铺 (police/ defense unit) of the Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the early Qing, the villages of Houguo 后郭, Tiantou 田头, and Houdong 后董 were settled. Currently these villages are managed by the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into four shê ritual associations. The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 temple, located in Houguo village, is the main temple of the four shê ritual alliance. The main god is Baosheng dadi 保生大帝. It is said that formerly a joint Yuanxiao procession and ritual was celebrated by the four shê alliance, but these collective rites have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Houguo were part of the black banner alliance. 
V633 Houguo 后郭 1. Village settlement Houguo is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Houguo is over 3600 people. Houguo is divided into several neighborhoods including Jingliu 井刘, Dacuo 大厝, Dashê 大社, Tuoli 坨里, Qianmian 前面, Xiapo 下坡, Dingpo 顶坡, Dutouli 杜头利, and Liucuo 刘厝. There are many overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in Houguo including the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, the Cai 蔡, the Zheng 郑, and the Zhao 赵. The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. The Chen moved to Houguo village from Kuokou 阔口, after first living in Puwei 埔尾. 3. Village temples 1) Chelujing Xiangongtang 车辂境仙宫堂 contains the altars of the Xinyishê 新义社 and the Youwanshê 游湾社. The main gods are Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君), and for the Youwanshê 游湾社, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. For the Xinyishê 新义社, the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Chishui lingguanfa dadi 勅水灵官 法大帝, Zhengyi linguan Ma yuanshuai 正一灵官马元帅, Taiyi sanxiangu 太乙三仙姑, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Jinshi dajiang 金氏大将, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xianzheng zunhou 显圣尊侯, Feitian dawang 飞天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhang shizhe 张使者, and Liu shizhe 刘使者. There is a stele in the temple composed in 1937 entitled 仙宫堂题捐禁约碑 (Stele listing the contributions to the Immortal Palace Hall and its rules and prohibitions) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:368, No. 334). 2) Wanghaitang and Qingsongting 望海堂, 青松亭 belong to the Chen of Dingpo 顶坡陈. The main god is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿 belongs to the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Chishui lingguan Fadadi 敕水灵官法大帝. 4) Xiangmingtang 尚明堂 belongs to the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and the Liucuo Liu 刘厝刘, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Yulingong 毓麟宫 the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅. 6) Feiyunguan飞云馆 belongs to Dutouli 杜头利, and the main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 7) Zhanggongfu 张公府 belongs to Xiapo 下坡 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8) Hudao shuyuan 壶岛书院 (also known as Baogongci 报功祠) belongs to what some villagers call the Xianghuapai 香花派 of the Three in One religious movement, implying that the initiates perform rituals for a livelihood. They have already passed down their ritual tradition for four generations. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Pengdaoci 蓬岛祠 belongs to the Wubenpai 悟本派 of the Three in One tradition, which primarily recites scriptures. The main gods is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 280 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Chen of Dingpo 顶坡陈 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13–14, Dacuo 大厝, Xiapo 下坡, Dashê 大社, and Dutouli 杜头利 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14–15 Liujing 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The celebration of Xiansheng Zunhou 显圣尊侯 is organized by Dacuo 大厝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. 3/1: The celebration of Liu shizhe 刘使者 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Jingliu 井刘. 3/13: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinyishê 新义社 is organized by Dacuo 大厝, Dashê 大社, Xiapo 下坡, and Tuoli 坨里 3/15: The celebration of Baosheng dadi 保生大帝(Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君) is held. 4/4: The celebration of Leshui lingguanfa dadi 敕水灵官法大帝 and Zhang shizhe 张使者 is organized by Jingliu 井刘. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dutouli 杜头利. 4/13: The celebration of Jinshi dajiang 金氏大将 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. 6/1: The celebration of Wugong dutong 吴公都统 is organized by Dashê 大社. 6/11: The celebration of Feitian dasheng 飞天大圣 is organized by Liucuo 刘厝 6/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Youwanshê 游湾社 is organized by Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝 and Dingpo 顶坡. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Hudao shuyuan 壶岛书院. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Xiapo 下坡. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Dacuo 大厝. 9/18: The celebration of Zhengyi lingguan Ma yuanshuai 正一灵官马元帅 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the neigbourhood specified, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis within the specific territorial unit. 5. Ritual groups The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 has a temple management committee 董事会 made up of representatives of each neighborhood and Overseas Chinese representatives. The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 and the Feiyunguan 飞云馆 both have tanban 坛班 altar associations of spirit mediums and their assistants. In 1949 and in 1987 guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions were held. Since 1993 guanjie sessions have been held roughly once every three years, and each time the sessions last for seven days. On11/16 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by the Pengdaoci 蓬岛祠 Three in One scripture masters. 
V634 Tiantou 田头 1. Village settlement Tiantou village belongs to Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is over 1000 people. There are lots of Oversea Chinese. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in Tiantou including the Shê 佘, the Dong 董, the Lin 林. The Shê 佘 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Timingjing Chongxingshê 题名境重兴社 is within the Chongxingtan zumiao (founding temple) 重兴坛祖庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xiaogong shenghou 肖公圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Lisan mingwang 李三明王. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 13 (1887) entitled 重兴 坛祖庙禁约题捐碑 (Stele recording contributions to the renovation of the Chongxingtan Founding Temple along with its regulations) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:345, No. 309). 2) Chengbentang 承本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–14, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession through the village, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a pingan jiao 平安醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 2/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for three days. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for three days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups The Chongxingtan zumiao 重兴坛祖庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. Since 1990 the temple has organized guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions three times. Each year Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility on the basis of age. 
V635 Houdong 后董 1. Village settlement Houdong village belongs to the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups in the village, the Guo 郭 and the Kang 康. The Kang are the major surname, and the Guo moved to the village from Houguo. 3. Village temples 1) Yuhujing Xinyishê 玉湖境新义社 is inside the Wudangong 武当宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Wuwei shenghou 五位圣侯. 2) Yubentang 玉本堂 was first built in Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850), and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist masters are invited to conduct a pingan jiao 平安醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for three days. 9/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility on the basis of age. 
A141 Aoshan qijing (Aoshan sevenfold ritual alliance) 鳌山七境 The Aoshan sevenfold ritual alliance is located alongside the sea in hilly country. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Hanjiang area 涵江. This area was part of the Tiantou Houguopu 田头后郭铺 and Ketingchengpu 柯亭埕铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the village of Yansun 岩浔 was settled in this region. The current population of the region is over 8000 people, living in the six villages of Houhuang 后黄, Aoli 澳里, Xiashê 下社, Xiake下柯, Dingke 顶柯, and Qitou 歧头, all of which are managed by the Aoshan Administrative Village 鳌山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 (founding temple), located in Aoshan 鳌山 village, on top of Yanzhen mountain 雁阵山, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. This temple is commonly referred to as the Yanxungong 岩浔宫. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘. Secondary gods include Fushan shenghou 孚善圣侯 (Chen Yinggong 陈应功), Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Miaoguan dashi 妙观大师 and Zhaogong dashuai 赵公太师. On lunar 1/6 the birthday of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is celebrated. Each of the subsidiary villages takes turns sponsoring opera at the main temple. Dingke 顶柯 village carries the goddess back to watch opera every year at this time. Lunar 6/10 is the birthday of Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君. The Toujing 头境 (consisting of the villages of Houhuang 后黄, Aoli 澳里 and Xiashe下社, the Zhong (middle) jing (ritual territory) 中境 (made up of Xiake 下柯 and Dingke 顶柯), and the Wei (tail) jing 尾境 (ritual territory—made up of Qitou village 歧头) take turns sponsoring opera performances, which go on for at least ten days. In addition, each lunar 3/19 the celebration of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is held, and on lunar 4/14 the birth day of Fushan shenghou is celebrated 孚善圣侯. On these occasions there are also several days of opera performances. These activities are organized by the temple management committee, which is made up of representatives of each of the ritual territories. The Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 has an altar dedicated to the spirit mediums of the past (历代古坛). Currently there are over ten spirit mediums, and they have already undergone four rounds of spirit medium training guanjie 关戒. Each spirit medium training session lasts for at least one week, and the training concludes with a climbing of a ladder of swords. Subsidiary to the temple are the following shê altars: Huangan zushê 皇安祖社, Huangan xinshê 皇安新社, Huangan Qianshê 皇 安前社, Tiechang zushê 铁场祖社, Tiechang dongshê 铁场东社, Tiechang zhongshê 铁场中社, Xinxing shangshê 新兴上社, and Shayuan zushê 沙园 祖社. This alliance is referred to as the seven ritual territories and eight shê altar alliance 七境八社. 
V636 Houhuang 后黄 1. Village settlement The village population is over 580 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surname groups in the village, the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zhao 赵. The Chen are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Huangan zushê 皇安祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huanganting 皇安亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years. Opera is performed for two days. 5/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held every three years. Opera is performed for four days. 5. Ritual Groups Houhuang has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V637 Aoli 澳里 1. Village settlement The village population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surname groups in the village, the Lin 林, the Wei 魏, and the Zheng 郑. The Lin are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing shangshê 新兴上社 was built in 1923, and belongs to the Lin 林 and the Wei 魏. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tiechang zhongshê 铁场中社 belongs to the Zheng 郑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yaozhutang 瑶珠堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling Zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 takes place once every three years and opera is performed for four days. 10/28: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinxing shengshê 新兴上社 is organized by the Lin 林 and the Wei 魏. Opera is performed for two days. 11/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Tiechang zhongshê’s 铁场中社 is organized by the Zheng 郑. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Aoli has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V638 Xiashê 下社 1. Village settlement The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tiechang dongshê 铁场东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fushan shenghou 孚善圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. 2) Yuanmingtang 圆明堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Guanghuatang 光华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Mile fozu 弥勒佛祖. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held every nine years. Opera is performed for two days. 4/12: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling Zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held once every three years. Opera is performed for four days. 8/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Xiashê has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V639 Xiake 下柯 1. Village settlement Xiake was originally called Ketingcheng 柯亭埕. The village population is over 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The two major surnames are the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. The Lin are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tiechang zushê 铁场祖社 is shared with Dingke 顶柯 village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Xiake, together with Dingke, take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is celebrated once every nine years, together with Dingke. Opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaolilng zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, together with Dingke 顶柯. Opera is performed for four days. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held together with Dingke 顶柯. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Xiake has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V640 Dingke 顶柯 1. Village settlement Dingke was originally called Ketingcheng 柯亭埕. The village has a population of over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Ke 柯. The Ke are the dominant surname group, and are related to the Ke of Xiake 下柯. 3. Village temples 1) Sanxuanmiao 三喧庙 is dedicated to Zhushen dadi 注天大帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Dazunmiao 达尊庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Dingke, together with Xiake, take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held by going to the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 and inviting the god to watch the opera, which is performed for two days. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with two days of opera. 3/28: The celebration of Zhutian dadi 注天大帝 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, together with Xiake 下柯. Opera is performed for four days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held together with Xiake 下柯. Two days of opera are performed. 5. Ritual Groups Dingke has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V641 Qitou 歧头 1. Village settlement Qitou was originally called Yanzhen 雁阵. The village population is over 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Gong 龚, the Huang 黄, and the Liu 刘. The Gong have the most people. The Huang moved from Haungxiang 黄巷 and claim to be the descendants of Huang Gongdu 黄公度. 3. Village temples 1) Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 belongs to the Gong 龚. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 belongs to the Liu 刘, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 belongs to the Huang 黄 and is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 5) Beiyuandian 北元殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Nandou xingjun 南斗 星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, and Dujian dadi 都监大帝. 6) Qingandong 清安洞 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公星君. 7) Yuanhuatang 源华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 8) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9) Wanglinggong 万灵宫 is dedicated to Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 10) Sanhuitang 三会堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 1580 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, each shê community takes the incense burners of its shê altar to each household in its own territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, and two days of opera are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 is organized by the Huang 黄. 9/4: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 is organized by the Gong 龚. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 is organized by the Liu 刘. 5. Ritual Groups Qitou village has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. Unusually, on 6/13 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. In most of the Putian area, these rites take place around the Xiayua (lower prime 10/15) rather than around Zhongyuan (7/15) which is more common in Minnan areas and elsewhere in China. 
A142 Jingshan sancun (Jingshan three village ritual alliance) 鲸山三村 The Jingshan three village ritual alliance is located in the hills alongside the sea. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the irrigation canals in Hanjiang. This area was part of the Xiaoshanpu 小山铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里sub-canton. In the early Qing, this area was subject to the coastal evacuation policy. Currently the area has the three villages of Shishan 石山, Dongcheng 东埕, and Xinputou 新埔头. These villages are managed by two Administrative Village committees (Jingshan 鲸山 and Yangfang 杨 芳行政村). The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars into five shê ritual associations. The Xingxian baoshê 兴贤宝社 temple of Xinputou village is the founding shê of the five shê of the alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year at Yuanxiao, each of the shê of the alliance comes to the temple to invite the gods back with them. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the five shê of Jingshan were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V642 Dongcheng 东埕 1. Village settlement Dongcheng village belongs to the Jingshan Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The village population is approximately 400 people, living in about 100 households. The main livelihood comes from vegetable gardening. 2. Surname groups With the exception of a single Xu 许 household, all the residents of Dongcheng village are surnamed Huang 黄. The Huang moved to Dongcheng from Huangxiang, where there are still ancestal tombs and an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Dongshanjing Xingxian qianshê 东山境兴贤前社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Dongshanjing Beijidian 东山境北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Wugong yuanshuai 伍公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sanyuan dajiang 三元大将, Li shizhe 李使者, and Guo shizhe 郭使者. Jingshan three village ritual alliance 3) Wuxintang 悟心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Chen Zhida 陈智达, and Liang Puyao 梁普耀 (the latter two being leaders of the Three in One in the late Qing and early Republican period). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Sanyuan dajiang 三元大将, accompanied by their spirit mediums 神童, go on a procession around the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and movies are shown in the temple courtyard. On 1/15, taking part in the procession within the territory of Shishan Xingxian dongshê 石山兴贤东社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is held with two days of opera. 6/13: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 10/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are five spirit medium 神童 in the village, who have been through one guanjie 关戒 training session. 
V643 Shishan 石山 1. Village settlement Shishan is also known as Xiaoshan 小山. Shishan village belongs to the Jingshan Village Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The current population is approximately 3300 people living in around 600 households. The main livelihood is aquaculture, raising seafood and fishing. According to people in Dongcheng village 东埕 the shore of Shishan and its dams originally belonged to Dongcheng, and only later were seized by the villagers of Shishan. At the moment this is under litigation. There have been many conflicts over these issues in the past as well. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Chen are more numerous and live mostly in Qianzhi 前至 neigbourhood. The Chen moved to Shishan from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 live in Houzhi 后至 neighborhood, and came from Huangxiang 黄巷. 3. Village temples 1) Jingshanjing Ganyinmiao (also called the Hunyuandian) 鲸山境感应庙(混元殿) which contains the Xingxian shexue 兴贤社学. This temple has as its subsidiaries the Dongshê (eastern) 东社, Xishê (western) 西社, and the Nanshê (southern) 南社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, as well as Taishang laojun 太上老君. Secondary gods include Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Shuiguan dadi 水官大人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王 (Shitai zhenren 石胎真人), Fude zhengshen 福 德正神, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 11 (1861) entitled 重修混元殿碑记 (Stele on the restoration of the Temple of Chaotic Origin) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 286). 2) Jingshanjing wudanggong 鲸山境武当官 is also known as the Huting (Tiger pavilion) 虎亭. It is said that the Tiger taming Monk Hufu zushi Huang Miaoying 伏虎祖师黄妙应 once traveled here and carved a stone tiger and a stele as a mark of his progress. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Tiangang 天罡, Dikui 地魁, Shi zuoye 史佐爷, Zheng zuoye 张佐爷, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Wubentang 悟本堂 (Wuben shuyuan 悟本书院) was founded by Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the late Qing, and is the main temple of the Wuben branch of the Three in One religious movement 悟本派总堂, and so is independent of the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 in Putian. This claims to be the first temple in the Three in One movement to hold the Lanpen 兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Puyao Liang xiansheng 普辉梁先生, Zhida Chen xiansheng 智达 陈先生, Zhihui Liu xiansheng 智瑞刘先生, Weituo 韦驮, Shijia 释迦, and Jialan 迦兰. The SJCDCB, 1992: 8 lists 340 initiates. 5) Wuxintang 悟心堂 in Qiancuo 前厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. 6) Jingyuean 净月庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/15, the Huang 黄 of Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian xishê 兴贤西社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 8/1: The celebration of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 10/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 12/26: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village but they have no guanjie 关戒 training. Formerly they set up an altar 设坛 for their activities. Shishan has over 400 initiates in its Three in One temple. The temple standing committee 常务理事 has over a dozen members. On 7/29 the Wubentang 悟本堂 performs the Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance and marionette plays are performed. 
V644 Xinpotou 新坡头 1. Village settlement Xinpotou is also know as Xinputou 新浦头. Xinpotou belongs to the Yangfang administrative village 杨芳行政村. The village population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Huang 黄 and the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Jinpojing Xingxian baoshê 锦坡境兴贤宝社: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Jinpojing Wenshendian 锦坡境温神殿 is dedicated to Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 3) Baohutang 宝壶堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Aoshanjing Xingxian dongshê 鳌山境兴贤东社 belongs to the Huang of Shishan 石山黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Yongming baoguosi 永明报国寺 was first built in the Ming Wangli period (1572–1620) and was rebuilt in the Republican period, and has been restored in recent years. This temple belongs to the twenty-four jing (ritual territories) of the entire Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里二十四境. The Dabaidian 大悲殿 is dedicated to Rulai fozhu 如来佛主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者. The Jiuxiaodong 九宵洞 is dedicated to the Baxian (the Eight Immortals) 八仙, and the Jiuxian (Nine Immortals 九仙. The Xinjiapo (Singapore) Qiongsantang 新加坡琼三堂, is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Chaoyang shuyuan 朝阳书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. These gods were returned to Putian when the temple in Singapore closed down. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Zhou 卓 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, the Huang 黄, together with the Shishan Xingxian dongshê 石山兴贤东社, take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian baoshê 兴显宝社 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 is organized by the Chen of Shishan 石山陈. 11/1: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Wenshenmiao 温神庙 has spirit mediums 神童, but they do not undergo guanjie 关戒 training. 
A143 Yangfang liushê (Yangfang six shê ritual alliance) 杨芳六社 The Yangfangsix shê ritual alliance is located in hilly country near the sea. Water for irrigation comes from the irrigation canals of Hanjiang. This area was part of the Zengfangpu 曾方铺 and Sulinpu 苏林铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the early Qing, the villages of Dongfang 东坊, Shangyuan 上园, Houzeng 后曾, Dongzeng 东曾, Qianlin 前林, and Lingtou 岭坑 were settled. Currently this area is managed by the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The Tianhougong 天后宫 temple, located in Xilin 西林 village, is the main temple of the ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year with an intercalary third lunar month, the goddess is carried in a procession around the villages of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the six shê of Yangfang were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V645 Shangmei 上梅 1. Village settlement Shangmei was originally called Shangyuan 上园. Shangmei belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. In ancient time, together with Xizeng 西曾 and Houzeng 后曾, the area was called Zenggongmu (the Zeng tombs) 曾公墓. The village population of Shangmei is over 300 people living in 84 households. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, and that is the Zeng 曾. The Zeng came from Guangdong 广东 and are now into their tenth generation in the village. They have divided into four lineage branches 四房. The original Zeng family ancestral hall 曾氏祖祠 has been rebuilt, and there is collective worship of the ancestors 祭祖合祭. 3. Village temples Shadijing Xinzhongshê 沙堤境新中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the villagers join up with Houzeng 后曾 to together carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and guacai 挂彩 (paste up New Years couplets). Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V646 Houzeng 后曾 1. Village settlement Houzeng belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. There are currently about 60 households in the village. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Zeng, and they are related to the Zeng of Shangmei 上梅. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Changxingshê 沙堤境长兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shunhemiao 顺和庙 is dedicated to Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Tongling shifu 通灵师父, Lingong shifu 林公师父, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 3) Shengzhu shuyuan 圣珠书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers join up with those of Shangmei to together carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to guacai 挂彩. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with two days of opera. 5/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅) is held with half a month of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are several score of Three in One initiates 门人 in Houzeng village. 
V647 Dongzeng 东曾 1. Village settlement Dongzeng belongs to the Yangfang administrative village 杨芳行政村 The current village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Dongzeng is a single surname village—the Zeng 曾 are related to the Zeng of Houzeng. There is a Zeng ancestral hall 曾姓祖祠. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Beijidian 沙堤境北极殿 contains the altar of the Xinzhongshê 新中社. This is the main temple of the Shati ritual territory 沙堤境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Baihu jiangjun 白虎将军. 2) Shadijing Nanqinggong 沙堤境南清宫 is jointly owned with Houzeng 后曾 and Shangmei 上梅. The main gods are Qinming Baidaren 钦命白大人, Weng daren 翁大人, Tian daren 田大人, Yang daren 杨大人, and He daren 何大人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Chen daye 陈大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Chengguangtang 诚光堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Jiutian Tiangong yuanshuai 九天 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Chenshi dage 陈氏大哥. 4) Shanggeting 上阁亭 is famous for responding to prayers for rain 祈雨有 灵. The temple’s reputation reached to Putian city. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 11/14: The celebration of the five Daren 五大人 surnamed Bai 白, Weng 翁, Tian 田, Yang 杨, He 何 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. There are thirty older spirit medium 神童 and forty younger spirit mediums 神童. 
V648 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement Xilin was originally called Qianlin 前林. Xilin belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The village population is over 1540 people. The main livelihood is farming and pulling carts. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Zeng 曾 and the Lin 林. The Zeng 曾 came from Nanfeng in Jiangxi 江西南丰. First they moved to Hetou 河头 near Putian and later to Xilin 西林. They are now in their eighth generation and have divided into six lineage branches. The Zeng of Jikui 集奎 and Xialin 下林 come to Xilin to worship their ancestors. The ancestral tombs have however been flattened and destroyed. 3. Village temples 1) Xihujiung Tianhougong 西湖境天后宫 contains the altar of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and is the main temple of the Yangfang seven fold village alliance 杨芳七境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 2) Yinghu shuyuan 应湖书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Xinghu shuyuan 兴湖书院 is dedicated to Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣. 4) Mingyitang 明义堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/10 the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is held with two days of opera. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two day of opera. Each year with an intercalary third month there is a procession around the entire sevenfold village alliance. 4/12: The celebration of Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯 is held with two days of opera. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with at least two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Tianhougong 天后宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association, with over sixty spirit mediums 神童 and their assistants. There have been guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions three times. 
V649 Dongfang 东坊 1. Village settlement Dongfang was originally called Dongfang 东方. Dongfang belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The current village population is over 1200 people. 2. Surname groups Dongfang is a single surname village, surnamed Lin. The Lin have divided into six lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Xiatang shengjing Xinanshê 霞塘胜境新安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Andingtang 安定堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者. 3) Shanggeting 上阁亭 is renowned for its responses to prayers for rain 祈雨有灵 and its reputation extends to Putian city. The temple is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village. On 1/18, the ritual of the handing over of the duties of the Fushou 福首交接 is held, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinanshê 新安社 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants 神童(道友) of whom there are now over fifty. The practice is to hold guanjie 关戒 training sessions once every three years, and then to hold a Yuxiu gongde ritual 预修功德. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 5/25: 7/15: 7/17: 7/23: 11/7: 
V650 Lingdou 岭兜 1. Village settlement Lingdou was originally Lingkeng 岭坑. Lingdou belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The current village population is approximately 400 people. The village is divided by surname into Fengan zhongshê 丰安中社 and Fengan Nanshê 丰安南社. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Xu 徐, the Huang 黄, the He 何, and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanjing Tongxiaodian 龙山境通霄殿 contains the altar of the Fenganzhong shê 丰安中社. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhengyi tianshi 正一天师, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 2) Longshanjing Longshangong 龙山境龙山宫 contains the altar of the Fengan nanshê 丰安南社. The main gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sanwei xiangu 三位仙姑, and Ma Jia dajiang 马贾大将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the He 何 and the Wu 吴 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on a procession around their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the He 何 and the Wu 吴. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by the He 何 and the Wu 吴. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 10/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fengan nanshê 丰安南社 is held. 10/15: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fengan zhongshê 丰安中社 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by surname group or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has a tanban 坛班 altar association with thirty older spirit mediums and forty younger spirit mediums 神童. 
A144 Duotou shiwu shê (Duotou fifteen shê ritual alliance) 哆头十五社 The Duotou three village ritual alliance is located alongside the dikes by the sea facing the Xinghua 兴化 bay southwest of Hanjiang 涵江. Water for irrigation comes from irrigation canals from the Hanjiang area. These villages once belonged to the Duotoupu 哆头铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里. This area was originally a series of salt-fields, where sea salt was dried by the sun and gathered for sale. In the early Qing, this area was subject to the coastal evacuation policy. Currently the population exceeds 12,000 people. This region is managed by the Duoqian 哆前, Duozhong 哆中, and Duohou 哆后 Administrative Villages. The Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 of Duoqian 哆前 and the Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 of Duohou 哆后 are the main temples of the three village alliance 三村总宫. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 of Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 is carried on a procession to each village in the alliance. Every four years, the Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 of Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 also goes on a procession to each village in the alliance. Every six years, the Zhusheng dadi of the Dongyuedian 东岳殿注生大帝 is carried in a procession through all the villages of the alliance. Duotou fifteen shê ritual alliance 
V651 Duoqian 哆前 1. Village settlement Duoqian is both a natural village as well as an administrative village The population of Duoqian is approximately 3000 people. The village is divided into the three shê of Xinxing 新兴, Qianhu 前湖, and Kaiming 开明三社. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in Duoqian are the Li 李, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the huang 黄, and the Xiao 肖. The Li are the main surname, and there is a Li ancestral home 李氏祖厝 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 (also called Beijidian 北极殿) contain the altars of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Qianhu shushê 前湖书社. The temple is also referred to as the Qianhugong 钱湖宫. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tuzhu zhenren 土主真人, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Huiying shenghou 惠应圣侯, Liesheng shenghou 烈侯圣王, Wuhua tongzi 五华童子, Jinma tongzi 金马童子 Zhaoli daye, 昭利大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Tongmingdian 通明殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. 3) Haoranmiao 浩然庙 is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Ma jiangjun 马将军 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Mingdean 明德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Qingyuanci 清源祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records only one initiate at this temple. 6) Fuyuanan 福源庵 was built in 1943 (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the Fushou of each she carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Every four years the god goes on a procession on this day through the three villages of the Duotou ritual alliance. 4/1: The celebration of Zhaoli daye 昭利大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. 4/15: The celebration of Huiying shenghou 惠应圣侯 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, and has completed guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training. Duoqian has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual masters 祖传道士. 
V652 Duozhong 哆中 1. Village settlement Duozhong is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Duozhong is approximately 3000 people. The village is divided into the two shê called Fuxingshê 福兴社 and Wenxiashê 文霞社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Li 李, and Zeng 曾. The Li 李 are the most numerous. They moved to Duozhong from Yangwei 洋尾. Each year on 9/11 they go to Dongzhen to sweep the tombs of their ancestors, and to worship them. The Chen have less than 500 people in Duozhong. The Zeng are even less numerous. They are related to the Zeng of Dongzeng 东曾, and Houzeng 后曾. 3. Village temples 1) Lianzhujing Fuxingshê 联珠境福兴社 and Tianshanggong 天上宫(also called the Lianzhugong 联珠宫) is said to have been founded in the Song dynasty. The temple was repaired in the Qing Qianlong, Daoguang, and Xuantong periods. The temple originally belonged to Xilin 西林 but later Xilin divided incense and built its own Tianhougong 天后宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中 天大圣, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Boye 伯爷. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xuantong 1 (1909) by Shi Guanghua 石光华 entitled 重修联珠宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Temple of Linked Pearls) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:310, No. 275). 2) Aotoujing Wenxia dashê 鳌头境文霞大社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. This temple preserves a stele composed in Tongzhi 2 (1863) entitled 重修文 霞社记 (Record of the repairs to the Literary Aurora shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:324, No. 288). 3) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 and the Baiyundong 白云洞 have an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. The main gods are Zhutian dadi 注天大帝, and Baigong daren 白公大人. Secondary gods include Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Penggong yuanshuai 蓬公元帅, Tiangong daren 田公 大人, Jingong daren 金公大人, Magong daren 马公大人, Xiaogong daren 萧公大人, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Kuaili jiangjun 快吏将军, Lihe tongzi 李鹤童子, and Shichun tongzi 十春童子. 4) Qingyundong 青云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong daren 田公大人, Wenggong daren 翁公大人, and Jingong daren 金公大人, Secondary gods include Dongshizhe 东使者, and Xishizhe 西使者. 5) Weilingmiao 威灵庙 originally belonged to Dongzeng 东曾. The main god is Mei boye 梅伯爷. 6) Jindetang 金德堂 was built in Qing Jiaqing period (1796–1820) and is dedicated to Shidian yanwang 十殿阎王. The temple is considered the ancestral temple of the Longhuajiao movement in Putian. The temple preserves two stelae, the first composed in Xianfeng 7 (1857) entitled 重修金 德堂碑记 (Stele inscription on the renovation of the Hall of Golden Virtue) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:320, No. 285), and a second stele composed in Tongzhi 12 (1867) entitled 金德堂题捐祀业碑 (Stele listing the names of those who contributed to the sacrificial found of the Hall of Golden Virtue) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:329, No. 293). 7) Ganluting 甘露亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 8) Nanbaotang 南宝堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Houyunge 厚云阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10) Meixingan 梅性庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽蓝. 11) Taoyuan zuci 涛源祖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 of the Wenxiashê 文霞社 is carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11–12, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Fuxingshê 福兴社文霞社 is carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The celebration of Tian 田, Jin 金, and Weng 翁 Daren 大人 is held. Each year with an intercalary second month these gods go on procession through the entire village. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 3/28: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held. 4/15: The celebration of Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军 and Zhugong daren 朱公 大人 is organized by Fuxingshê 福兴社. 6/24: The celebration of Mei boye 梅伯爷 is held. 7/1: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 8/6: The celebration of Bai daren 白大人 is held. 8/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人诞 is organized by the Fuxingshê 福兴社 and the Wenxiashê 文霞社 separately. 9/18: The celebration of Li He tongzi 李鹤童子 is held. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two, and in some cases three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Wenxiashê 文霞社 and the Dongyuedian 东岳殿 both have ancient altars to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, and continue to have spirit mediums 神童. 
V653 Duohou 哆后 1. Village settlement Duohou is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Duohou is over 6000 people. The village is divided into ten shê, or neighborhoods. These are Qianting 前亭, Xinzhong 新中, Houzhong 后中, Dongxing 东兴, Shangxing 上兴, Xida 西大, Gongbian 宫边, Dongcuo 东厝, Tianxia 田下, and Xincuo 新厝. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, and the Zeng 曾. The Zheng are the main surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Aotoujing Xinanshê 鳌头境新安社 and Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 is the main temple of the Duotou ritual alliance 哆头总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayuan jiangjun 马援将军, Lingtong tongzi 灵通童子, Guangli longwang 广利龙王, Wangdu yuanshuai 王都元帅, Gongli lingwang 功利灵王, Yanggong taishi 杨公大使, Yanggong ershi 杨公二使, Taishiye 大师爷, Mou yuanshuai 牟元帅, Zhu yuanshuai 朱元帅, Ding yuanshuai 丁元帅, and Luo yuanshuai 罗元帅. The temple preserves one stele composed in Daoguang 29 (1849) by Li Yangan 李彦幹 entitled 重修昭惠廟碑記 (Stele recording the repairs to the Temple of Shining Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:312, No. 278) and a second stele composed in 1927 entitled 重修昭惠庙碑记 (Stone inscription on the Temple of Shining Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:365, No. 331). 2) Tianyundian 天云殿 was restored in 1982 and is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Yuying shenghou 俞应圣侯, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Dongyueguan 东岳殿 is owned by the three villages of the Duotou alliance together. Every sixty years the gods of the temple go on a procession through the entire ritual alliance. The main god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Xiaogong daren 萧公大人, Tiangong daren 田公 大人, Baigong daren 白公大人, Jingong daren, 金公大人, Magong daren 马公大人, Penggong daren 彭公大人, and Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. 4) Renxianci 仁先祠 was built in the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1735), and is dedicated to Dizangwang pusa 地藏王普萨. 5) Guangfuci 广福祠 is dedicated to Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙. Secondary gods include Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 6) Wanjinting 万金亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Chongxingfu 崇兴府 is dedicated to Li dajiangjun 李大将军. 8) Shouyuan shuyuan 涛源书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. (SJCDCB, 1992: 9). 9) Tianyuantang 天源堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records fourteen initiates. 10) Guangmingtang 光明堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃 goes on a procession throughout the Duotou ritual alliance. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival is held 总元宵 with opera for three days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Tianyundian 天云殿. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 3/15: The celebration of Guangli longwang 广利龙王 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Xida 西大. 5/10: The celebration of Wang duyuanshuai 王都元帅 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 5/16: The celebration of Tiandi 天地 is organized by Tianyundian 天云殿. 8/1: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by Tianyundian 天云殿. 8/15: The celebration of Li daren 李大人 is organized by Chongxingfu 重兴府. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for three days. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by Tianxia 田下. 8/23: The celebration of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅) is organized by Qianting 前亭. 9/15: The celebration of Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙 is organized by Guangfuci 广福祠. 9/28: The celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 11/1: The celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅 is organized by Shangxing 上兴. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific temples and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Zhaohui zumiao 昭惠祖庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, which is called the Lushan dafayuan 庐山大法院. Every twelve years there is a cycle of guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. Each session lasts seven days. There is the climbing of sword ladders 爬刀梯 and the completion of the Yuxiu rites 预修 (preparatory cultivation for immortality) as the conclusion of the cycle of training. 
A145 Gaomei wucun (Gaomei five village ritual alliance) 高美五村 The Gaomei five village ritual alliance is located along the dikes by the side of the sea along the Xinghua Bay. Water for irrigation comes from the channels around Hanjiang. This area was part of the Baimeipu 百美铺 and Shanggang Tiancuopu 上港田厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. Originally, the region was devoted to salt fields by the side of the sea. In the early Qing, the villages of Shangfang 上方, Gaoli 高里, Biwei 泌尾, Bancheng 半埕 and Shanggang 上港 were settled. These areas are now managed by the Gaomei Administrative Village 高美行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into four shê ritual associations. The Shouhainmiao 寿海庙 temple, located in Meiwei 美尾 village, was originally the main temple of the five village alliance. The main god was Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. It is said that formerly the god would go on processions. These collective processions and rites have not yet been revived. 
V654 Fengxiu 凤秀 1. Village settlement Fengxiu was originally called Gaoli 高里. The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Lin 林, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Su 苏 and the 蔡 are both related to people in Shanggang village 上港. 3. Village temples 1) Fengshanjing Yongxingshê 凤山境永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐. 2) Luxingmiao 禄兴庙 is dedicated to Qincha Tiandaren 钦差田大人 and Ma daren 马大人. Secondary gods include Zhongjun 中军 and Canmou 参谋. 3) Chongshengtang 崇圣堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Fengxiu village, together with Bancheng 半埕 village, takes the incense burners of the Yongxingshê 永兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on procession within the territory. On 2/20–21, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 with opera performances for two days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The celebration of Qincha Tian daren 钦差田大人 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐 is held. 7/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held together with Bancheng village 半埕. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Qinchai Ma daren 钦差马大人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Yongxingshê 永兴社 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings were held in the Republican period, and again in 1980. 
V655 Bancheng 半埕 1. Village settlement The village population is approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Lin 林, and they are related to the Lin of Fengxiu 凤秀. 3. Village temples 1) Pantingjing Fuxinggong 泮庭境福星宫 contains the altar of the Yongxingshê 永兴社 and is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dash eng 齐天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Li daren 李大人, and Peng daren 彭大人. 2) Yitiantang 一天堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 go on a procession through the village. On 2/1 the spring sacrifice in held 春祭 with opera for two days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/7: The celebration of Peng daren 彭大人 is held. 10/19: The celebration of Li daren 李大人 is held. 11/10: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Fuxinggong 福星宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. This altar association claims to be part of the Jinlunyuan “金轮院” ritual tradition and has a Lushan altar “庐山之坛”. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings have been held twice, in 1982 and 1998. 
V656 Shangfang 上方 1. Village settlement The village population is over 680 people. 2. Surname groups The oldest surname is the Fang 方. There is a Fang lineage ancestral hall 方氏宗祠. The Su surname 苏 is the largest, with over 70% of the village population. The Cai 蔡 came from Xianyou 仙游. There are also surname groups who left Shangfang to settle elsewhere, such as the Dapu Wang 大埔王, the Aoshan Gong 鳌山龚 and the Gongxia Su 宫下苏. Currently there is a Fang lineage ancestral hall in Shangfang 方氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Aofangjing Xinyishê 鳌方境新义社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Taishang laojun 太上老君, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Youbi tongzi 右弼童子. The temple has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. 2) Duiyang shuyuan 对阳书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records only two initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners of the Xinyishê 新义社 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is an altar to the Jinlunyuan 金轮院古坛 in the Xinyishê 新义社, and guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions have occurred. 
V657 Shanggang 上港 1. Village settlement The village population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups There are three main surnames, the Su 苏, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Su 苏 are the most numerous with over two thirds of the population. They used to have an ancestral hall but it has collapsed. 3. Village temples 1) Shanggangjing Aoxing shushê 上港境鳌兴书社 is inside the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Xushuangtang 续霜堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Shengcai tongzi 生财童子, Xianzhu longnü 献珠龙女, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhou Cang 周仓, Guan Ping 关平, and Ma zhongjun 马中军. 3) Huaguang chansi 华光禅寺 was built in the Ming and repaired in Qing Daoguang dingmei (1847) and in 1932. In recent years the Banduting 半渡亭 has been moved. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 4) Huanyundong 华云洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 are taken on a procession around the village. On 1/23 the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi is 玄天上帝 held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two to three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are two spirit medium 神童 in the village, each with an assistant 扶童. 
V658 Meiwei 美尾 1. Village settlement Meiwei was originally known as Biwei 泌尾. The village population is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Zhang 张, the Zeng 曾, and the Su 苏. The Su have kept a Su lineage ancestral hall 苏氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Fushangong 福山宫 is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, Guogong daren 郭公大人, Wang zhongjun 王中军, and Li zhongjun 李中军. 2) Baimeijing Yixingshê 百美境义兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shouhaimiao 寿海庙 was built in Qing Qianlong 53 (1788), and is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Libu zhongjun 李部中军, Wangbu zhongjun 王部中军, and Guogong daren 郭公大人. 4) Qilinmiao 麒麟庙 is dedicated to Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 5) Ziyundong 紫云洞 is dedicated to Daren 大人. 6) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records twelve initiates. 7) Mingdetang Buddhist hall 明德堂 was built in 1930 (PTZJZCG, 1992:207). 8) Fuyansi Buddhist temple 福严寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:207). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhang 张 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Zeng 曾 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the Sun 苏 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival is held 总元宵 and the Guogong daren 郭公大人 of Fushangong 福山宫 goes on a procession through the entire village. On 1/16, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/9: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/15: The celebration of Guogong daren 郭公大人 is held and opera is performed for thirty days. 10/22: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. On these occasions, with the exception of the month of opera for Guogong daren 郭公大人, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛 in the shê temple, and guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred three times. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected by divination to organize the village rituals. 
A146 Xinpu sishê (Xinpu four shê ritual alliance) 新浦四社 
V659 Xinpu 新浦 1. Village settlement The four shê alliance of Xinpu is located in the Sanjiangkou 三江口港 harbor. The principal source of water for irrigation is from the irrigation channels of Hanjiang. This area was part of the Beimepu 百美 铺 of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Xinpu was already settled. The current population of Xinpu is over 3000 people. The main livelihood is in transshipment of goods. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames of Xinpu are the Li 李, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Yu 俞. The Li are the Baitang Li 白塘李氏 from Yangwei 洋尾. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiangjing Fushougong 星江境福寿宫 is said to have been built in the Yuan dynasty and rebuilt in Qing Kangxi 28 (1689), and restored in 1982. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yangsheng zhongjun 杨圣中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Liming dajiang 李明大将, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 includes the altars of the Chongxing Yushê 重兴俞社, Chongxing xishê 重兴西社, Chongxing Chenshê 重兴陈社, and the Shangyuan Lishê 上元李社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Jiedaidian 接待殿 belongs to Lishê 李社 and was newly built in 1993. The main god is Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, and secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhaiqianmiao 寨前庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Lipomiao 里坡庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Benyuantang 本源堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. 7) Qinghuage 清华阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Xingshengci 兴圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Faye 法爷, and Zhongjun 中军. 9) Xiabentang 夏本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records fifty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On ¼, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 and opera is performed for three days. On 1/8, divination blocks are cast in Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 to decide the date of the Yuanxiao procession. On 1/15–18, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 are invited from Fushougong 福寿宫 to go on a procession through the entire village which lasts for three days. On 1/26 the Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 holds the spring sacrifice 春祭. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. On 1/ 28 the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 holds the spring sacrifice 春祭. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held. 3/17: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. 4/8: The celebration of Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chongxing chenshê 重兴陈社. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Chongxing yushê 重兴俞社. 5/16: The celebration of Tiandi 天地 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin 观音 is organized by the Chongxing Linshê 重兴林社. 11/9: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Shangyuan Lishê 上元李社. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific temples and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are a total of eleven old and new spirit mediums 神童 in Xinpu. They belong to the Lushan dafayuan “庐山大法院”. They take part in the Yuanxiao spring sacrifices and perform exorcistic dances 行傩. Every ten to twelve years there are guanjie 关戒 training sessions. In 1993 the sessions lasted three days. PART FOUR THE JIULIYANG IRRIGATED PLAIN 九里洋水利系统 
A147 Jiangkou qijing (Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance) 江口七境 The Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance is located in the town of Jiangkou, which currently has a population of over 10,000 people. The town formed gradually through the merging together during the Ming dynasty of several fishing villages clustered along the south side of the mouth of the Qiulu 萩芦 River. This area is irrigated by a canal diverted from the Qiulu 萩芦 river at the Nanan 南安 weir. From there, the canal runs alongside the river till just north of Jiangkou 江口 town, where it divides into three main channels, one of which continues to flows alongside the Qiulu 萩芦 river into and around Jiangkou township. The other canals bring water through the other multi-village ritual alliances of the irrigated Jiangkou plain, before allowing the water to flow into the Xinghua Bay 兴化 through sluice-gates which are opened and closed depending on the tides. This area was part of three police/defense regions, the Yifangpu 义坊舖, Qinrenpu 亲仁舖 and Qinxiu fangpu 锦绣坊舖, all within the Daixianli 待贤里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Xiaoyi 孝义, Gangxia 港下, Qianhui 前会, Houdun 后墩, Liujing 刘井 and Duweitou 度围头 were settled. In the early Qing, the village of Xinjing 新井 separated off from Houdun 后墩 village. In the Republican period, Houdu 后度 village separated off from Xiaoyi 孝义 village. However, because Houdu village still participates in the Yuanxiao processions of the Xiaoyi Youshengguan temple 孝义佑圣观, there are still only seven independent ritual territories in the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance. The main temple of the Jiangkou sevenfold territory was originally the Zhenjundian 真君殿, dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. This temple was torn down and converted into the Jinjiang 锦江 Middle School in the Republican period. This temple was dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Formerly, on each Yuanxiao festival, the gods of the temple would go on procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Even the palanquins of the Dongyueguan 东岳观 would have to stay overnight in this temple. Since the temple is no longer extent, there is no longer any overall procession for the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance. Nevertheless, each year on the birthday of Sandian Zhenjun 三殿真君 on lunar 6/10, one or two days of opera are performed to honor the god. Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance Jiangkou 江口 has an ancient altar to the soil and the harvest dating to the Song dynasty called the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 in Qianhui 前会 village. This shê altar was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 52 (1787). Each year on lunar 2/2 and on lunar 10/6 (the dates of the tou 头 (beginning) and weiya 尾牙 (ending) rites of the year), people come from all the villages of Jiangkou 江口 to worship at this temple. Jiangkou 江口 originally had thirty-six surname groups, and each surname lived in a defined area. Nowadays only fifteen surname groups remain, and each village is made up of mixed surname groups. However, at the level of the organization of village temple rituals, surname groups are still the primary mode of identification. In the feuding ritual alliances at the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou was part of the white banner alliance. Other significant temples in Jiangkou include a pagoda dedicated to Guanyin midway across a bridge over the Qiulu river that is said to have been founded in the Song (although the bridge was moved in the Ming). The Dongyueguan 东岳观 (Belvedere of the Eastern Peak), situated on the Amoy 厦门 to Foochow 福州 highway, claims to have been founded in the Song dynasty, but underwent a “reconstruction” in the Ming dynasty. The Dongyue guan 东岳观 serves to this day as the higher order temple for all the multi-village ritual alliances of the Jiangkou 江口 irrigated plain. Considerable resources have been invested in this temple from Overseas Chinese branch temples in Indonesia and by individual contributors. Large scaled emigration began in the late Qing, primarily to Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia, and successful sojourners returned to build impressive residences in the early Republican period. Remittances from Overseas Chinese relatives are an important aspect of local economic growth, which has boomed since 1980. The temple preserves many stelae, both ancient and modern, including: 1) Jiaqing 16 (1811) 重修东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:282, No. 246), 2) Jiaqing 18 (1813) 重修东岳观题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:283, No. 247); 3) Tongzhi 1 (1862) 兴化府为文昌东岳行宫示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions at the Auxiliary Temple of the Eastern Peak dedicated to Wenchang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 287); 4) (1922) 重修东岳观题 捐芳名碑 (Stele listing the names of the contributors supporting the repair of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 328), 5) (1922) 重修锦江东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Jinjiang Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 327). Currently, the area is very prosperous, and four-story apartment blocks faced with white tile and with open shop fronts on the ground floor line the roads. Many villages in the Jiangkou area have undergone complete makeovers into something more closely resembling mini-urban developments. In most such cases, the temples have been left in their original locations, although they have been completed rebuilt or renovated two or three times in the past 25 years. Ritual celebrations are exceptionally extravagant, with considerable funding coming from visiting Overseas Chinese relations. The former Party Secretary of Jiangkou reported that, in the early ’80s, he could attend ritual related opera performances 250 days out of the year in the Jiangkou area. 