A147

Jiangkou qijing (Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance) 江口七境

The Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance is located in the town of Jiangkou,
which currently has a population of over 10,000 people. The town formed
gradually through the merging together during the Ming dynasty of several
fishing villages clustered along the south side of the mouth of the Qiulu
萩芦 River. This area is irrigated by a canal diverted from the Qiulu 萩芦
river at the Nanan 南安 weir. From there, the canal runs alongside the river
till just north of Jiangkou 江口 town, where it divides into three main channels, one of which continues to flows alongside the Qiulu 萩芦 river into and
around Jiangkou township. The other canals bring water through the other
multi-village ritual alliances of the irrigated Jiangkou plain, before allowing the water to flow into the Xinghua Bay 兴化 through sluice-gates which
are opened and closed depending on the tides. This area was part of three
police/defense regions, the Yifangpu 义坊舖, Qinrenpu 亲仁舖 and Qinxiu
fangpu 锦绣坊舖, all within the Daixianli 待贤里 sub-canton. In the Ming,
the villages of Xiaoyi 孝义, Gangxia 港下, Qianhui 前会, Houdun 后墩, Liujing 刘井 and Duweitou 度围头 were settled. In the early Qing, the village
of Xinjing 新井 separated off from Houdun 后墩 village. In the Republican
period, Houdu 后度 village separated off from Xiaoyi 孝义 village. However,
because Houdu village still participates in the Yuanxiao processions of the
Xiaoyi Youshengguan temple 孝义佑圣观, there are still only seven independent ritual territories in the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance.
The main temple of the Jiangkou sevenfold territory was originally the
Zhenjundian 真君殿, dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. This temple was torn
down and converted into the Jinjiang 锦江 Middle School in the Republican
period. This temple was dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Wenchang
dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Formerly, on each Yuanxiao
festival, the gods of the temple would go on procession through the sevenfold
ritual alliance. Even the palanquins of the Dongyueguan 东岳观 would have
to stay overnight in this temple. Since the temple is no longer extent, there
is no longer any overall procession for the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance.
Nevertheless, each year on the birthday of Sandian Zhenjun 三殿真君 on
lunar 6/10, one or two days of opera are performed to honor the god.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance

part four

A147

946

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

947

Jiangkou 江口 has an ancient altar to the soil and the harvest dating to the
Song dynasty called the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 in Qianhui 前会 village.
This shê altar was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 52 (1787). Each year on lunar
2/2 and on lunar 10/6 (the dates of the tou 头 (beginning) and weiya 尾牙
(ending) rites of the year), people come from all the villages of Jiangkou
江口 to worship at this temple.
Jiangkou 江口 originally had thirty-six surname groups, and each surname lived in a defined area. Nowadays only fifteen surname groups remain,
and each village is made up of mixed surname groups. However, at the level
of the organization of village temple rituals, surname groups are still the
primary mode of identification.
In the feuding ritual alliances at the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual
alliance of Jiangkou was part of the white banner alliance.
Other significant temples in Jiangkou include a pagoda dedicated to
Guanyin midway across a bridge over the Qiulu river that is said to have
been founded in the Song (although the bridge was moved in the Ming).
The Dongyueguan 东岳观 (Belvedere of the Eastern Peak), situated on the
Amoy 厦门 to Foochow 福州 highway, claims to have been founded in the
Song dynasty, but underwent a “reconstruction” in the Ming dynasty. The
Dongyue guan 东岳观 serves to this day as the higher order temple for all
the multi-village ritual alliances of the Jiangkou 江口 irrigated plain. Considerable resources have been invested in this temple from Overseas Chinese
branch temples in Indonesia and by individual contributors. Large scaled
emigration began in the late Qing, primarily to Singapore, Malaysia, and
Indonesia, and successful sojourners returned to build impressive residences
in the early Republican period. Remittances from Overseas Chinese relatives
are an important aspect of local economic growth, which has boomed since
1980.
The temple preserves many stelae, both ancient and modern, including:
1) Jiaqing 16 (1811) 重修东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:282, No. 246), 2) Jiaqing
18 (1813) 重修东岳观题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors
to the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:283, No. 247);
3) Tongzhi 1 (1862) 兴化府为文昌东岳行宫示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions at the Auxiliary Temple of the Eastern Peak dedicated to Wenchang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 287); 4) (1922) 重修东岳观题
捐芳名碑 (Stele listing the names of the contributors supporting the repair
of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 328),
5) (1922) 重修锦江东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Jinjiang Eastern
Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 327).
Currently, the area is very prosperous, and four-story apartment blocks
faced with white tile and with open shop fronts on the ground floor line the
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

948

part four

roads. Many villages in the Jiangkou area have undergone complete makeovers into something more closely resembling mini-urban developments.
In most such cases, the temples have been left in their original locations,
although they have been completed rebuilt or renovated two or three times
in the past 25 years. Ritual celebrations are exceptionally extravagant, with
considerable funding coming from visiting Overseas Chinese relations. The
former Party Secretary of Jiangkou reported that, in the early ’80s, he could
attend ritual related opera performances 250 days out of the year in the
Jiangkou area.
V660 Xiaoyi 孝义
1. Village settlement Xiaoyi is part of the Jiangkou 江口 town, and of
the sevenfold ritual territorial alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current
population is over 3000. Xiaoyi is divided into seven shê (altars of the god
of the soil and the harvest): the Shoushê 首社 (head she), the East shê 东
社, the Lishê 李社, the Lishê 荔社, the Xiajieshe 霞街社, the Guanqianshê
观前社 and the Houdushê 后度社. The main livelihood is in retail business
and shop-keeping. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Li 李,
the Ma 马, the Guo 郭, the Zhuo 卓, the Lu 卢, the Weng 翁, and the He
何. The Chen 陈 has the most people, at around 1000 people. Then it would
be the Li 李, the He 何, and the Ma 马. It is said that the Chen came from
Kuokou 阔口 of Putian 莆田, and are the Chen of Yuhu “玉湖陈”. There was
originally a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏宗祠. There is also the newly built Chen
Wenlong Memorial Hall 陈文龙纪念馆, built in front of the Youshengguan
佑圣观 in recent years, which is also referred to as the Erxiangtang 二相堂.
The ancestral worship activities of each surname group are unknown. A few
have, in recent years, rebuilt ancestral halls and begun to revive ancestral
worship.
3. Village temples 1) The Youshengguan 佑圣观 is the main temple of
the Xiaoyijing 孝义境, which contains the Lingxingshê 灵兴社: Built in the
Ming Dynasty (or the Yuan Dynasty), it was renovated during the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1735). The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄
天上帝. Other gods include San tian duyuanshuai nezha 三天都元帅哪吒,
Wuxian huaguang dadi 五显华光大帝 (also known as Zhengyi linggong
正一灵宫) Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Jianlei yushi Zhanggong shengjun 监雷御
史张公圣君 (with the additional title of imperially enfeoffed Sanyuan boji
zhenjun 敕封三元溥济真君), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Shuntian shengmu
顺天圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Chengong taiwei 陈公太尉, Tongling Jin dajiangjun 统领
金大将军, Lingxingshê gong ma 灵兴社公妈, and Wang zhongjun 王中军.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

949

2) Xilin temple 西林寺: The stone inscription composed by Dongshi 董史
entitled 西林寺记 (Record of the Western Grove Monastery) is about this
temple. (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 214, No. 187).
3) Fushanan 福善庵. (PTZJZCG, 1992:210).
4) Miaoyuanan 妙源庵 was built during Republican period. (PTZJZCG,
1992:210).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The Yuanxiao 元宵 festival is held from
1/12 to 1/15. First and foremost, each shê goes on procession separately.
After Yuanxiao, on a day determined by divination, a common procession is
held. This procession carries out all the gods, and can include several hundred participants.
The procession date for each shê are as follows:
On 1/12 Lishê 李社, Dongshê 东社, and Lishê 荔社 go on procession.
On 1/13 the Shoushê 首社 goes on procession.
On 1/14 Guanqianshê 观前社 and Houdushê 后度社 go on procession.
On 1/15 the Xiajieshê 下街社 goes on procession.
The head person 福首 selected by each shê is responsible for the procession of the respective shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The
board of directors of the Youshengguan 佑圣观 is responsible for the common procession, and contributions are again collected on a per capita basis.
Individual voluntary donations are posted on the temple walls. The common
procession of 2007 concluded with a bonfire in front of the temple. There,
several performing arts processional troupes performed simultaneously,
including military brass bands, traditional all female drum-cart and cymbal
troupes, shiyinbayue 十音八乐 musical troupes, and finally, a group dance
led by the tanban 坛班 spirit mediums. Meanwhile, opera troupes performed
on a stage facing the temple. All palanquin bearers, banner and banner carriers, and incense-bearing followers in the procession were rewarded with
bags of traditional cookies, fruit, and talismans of the gods. Extraordinary
amounts of fireworks were exploded—everything from stings of fireworks
to rockets which exploded above the temple all night long. The sedan chairs
of the gods charged into the temple through great clouds of smoke, illuminated by the flames of the bonfire and the explosions of the fireworks.
Temple guards dressed as Qing yamen guards lined the steps of the temples
and temple managers directed the performing arts troupes and crowds of
worshippers around the courtyard and inside the temple. Tables strewn with
elaborate offerings were lined up in front of the many altars, and worshippers
moved around the temple to each altar, bowing, performing kowtows, and
offering incense and then taking stacks of sprit money to burn in a incinerator in the shape of a gourd in the courtyard outside the temple.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

950

part four

Birthday celebrations of the gods
1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 (worshipped at
Donglaisi 东来寺).
3/3: The birthday celebrations for Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝.
8/15: The birthday celebrations for Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Shêgong
社公 Shêma 社妈, and Wang zhongjun 王中军.
The board of directors of the temple are responsible for organizing the ritual,
the feast, and the opera performance. Each shê collects contributions on a
per capita basis. There are also voluntary personal donations towards opera
performances and transfers from Overseas Chinese.
All the birthday celebrations of the other gods are each the responsibility of
individual she:
2/13: The celebration of the celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is organized by Xiajieshê 下街社.
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dongshê
东社.
4/18: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元师 is organized by Lishê
荔社.
5/18: The celebration of Chen taiwei 陈太尉 is organized by Shoushê 首社.
6/17: The celebration of Kang yuanshuai 康元帅 is organized by Shoushê
首社.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by
Dongshê 东社.
9/28: The celebration of Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 is organized by Lishê 李社.
9/13: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Guanqianshê 观前社.
7/23: The celebration of Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅 is organized by
Houdushê 后度社.
Each shê receives funds from Overseas Chinese to be used for The birthday
celebrations. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or by
personal donations for additional opera performances.
5. Ritual Groups Youshengguan 佑圣观 currently has over 200 members
of its Tanban 坛班 (altar association), but guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has not occurred. It is said that in the past, people had died during
guanjie. On lunar 10/24 of 1967, an Anxiang yingsheng dadian 安香迎圣
大典 (great rite to invite the sages with offerings of incense) was held for
the Lidai gutan 历代古坛 (ancient altar dedicated to the spirit mediums of
the past). Xiaoyi 孝义 village used to have a Sanjiao (Three in One) temple
三教祠, but later it was disassembled and merged into Youshengguan 佑
圣观. The saying goes: “The Xiaoyi temple sold the Sanjiaoci to buy lumber” (Xiaoyigong maisanjiaoci maimuliao) “孝义宫卖三教祠买木料”. The
disciples of the Sanjiao (the Three-in-One) mostly go to the major Sanjiao
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

951

temple called the Shangyang shuyuan 尚阳书院 of Qiaowei of Fuqing 福
清桥尾, across the bridge over the Qiulu river, to attend rituals. There is
also another Buddhist temple in the village, the Miaoyuanan 妙源庵, which
worships Guanyin 观音, Mazu 妈祖, Weituo 韦陀, and Jialan 伽蓝. This
nunnery has one temple master (Zhuchi) 住持 and one nun (Nigu) 尼姑.
Attached to Youshengguan 佑圣观 is a cultural center (wenhuagong) 文化
宫 which has a library and entertainment facilities. The center has a board
of director, an elder’s committee and an Overseas Chinese construction fund
which is responsible for village construction projects related to irrigation,
roadwork, and electrical lines.
V661 Xiahoudu 下后度
1. Village settlement Xiahoudu is a neighborhood of Xiaoyi 孝义. The village is a settlement for the He 何 surname group. Together with Shanghoudu
上后度, it is one of the shê of the sevenfold shê of Xiaoyi 孝义七社. There
is a relatively independent neighborhood temple called Xinxingdian 新兴
殿. There are currently approximately 300 people in this neighborhood. The
main livelihood is agriculture and shop keeping.
2. Surname groups The He 何 of Xiahoudu are divided into six branches,
of which four branches gradually emigrated to various villages in Jiangkou
江口 including Xinjing 新井, Gangxia 港下, Houdu 后度, and Jingtou 井头
during the Ming Dynasty. Later on, these four branches gradually returned
to settle here, and are called the He of Lujiang “卢江何氏”. The other two
branches moved in more recently. It is said that the Xinxingdian 新兴殿 was
constructed to mark the establishment in this area of the Lujiang 卢江 He
何 surname group.
3. Village temples 1) Xinxingdian 新兴殿 is dedicated to the worship of
Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng
齐天大圣, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅,
Zhaoshun shengwang 昭顺圣王, and Dikui 地魁. The statue of Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君 is placed in Youshengguan 佑圣观, and is only carried
back to the home temple during Yuanxiao 元宵 so that every household can
worship the god.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions Xiahoudu 下后度 participates in the
common procession of Youshengguan 佑圣观 and the procession of Houdushê 后度社. None of the gods of Xinxingdian 新兴殿 go on procession.
However, the statue of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 can be carried to the
homes of each household for worshipping purposes.
On 1/13 Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated by the older four branches of the He 何
surname group. On 1/15, Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated by the entire village.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

952

part four

Birthday celebrations of the gods
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on 7/23 is the most
grand. Opera is usually performed for several days.
A group of the eldest residents, called “county elders” (Xianlao) 县老 serve
as the head persons (Touren) 头人 in charge of the ritual activities. Funds
are collected on a per capita basis. Transfers from Overseas Chinese are also
made at times. Apart from these celebrations, marionette plays are also usually performed for the birthday celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅.
For the other the birthday celebrations of the other deities, there is a feast set
up inside the temple with worship offerings.
5. Ritual Groups This temple originally had Shentong 神童 mediums.
Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 could all descend ( jiangshen) 降神 to possess them. There are still a number of old Tanban 坛班
altar associates, but guanjie 关戒 has not occurred yet due to a lack of funds.
The village has a Buddhist nunnery called the Fuluan 福禄庵, which has
existed for more than a century. Now only one nun is the temple master.
V662 Liujing 刘井
1. Village settlement Liujing belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. The current population is over 1300 people. Liujing is part
of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current population
is approximately 1300. The village used to be divided into two neighborhoods, Qianshê 前社 and Houshê 后社, but now they are all mixed in with
each other and the boundaries are not clear. The village has been re-divided
into six jia 六甲, each bearing the name of a god: these are Zhugongjia 朱公
甲, Ligongjia 李公甲, Zhanggongjia 张公甲, Hangongjia 韩公甲, Magongjia
马公甲, and Chengongjia 陈公甲. The main livelihood is commerce. There
are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Lin
林, the Zhuo 卓, the Weng 翁, the Cai 蔡, the Wu 吴, the Fang 方, and the
Wang 王. The Lin 林 has an ancestral hall. The Chen has a combined ancestral hall with the Chen 陈 of Yuhu 玉湖 of Xiaoyi 孝义. The origins and
worshipping rituals of all other surname groups are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Chongqingguan 崇清观 is within Jinxiufang 锦锈
坊 and contains the Xiaotiyunshê 校梯云社 as well as the Linzhenshê 麟
振社. The temple was built during the Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795),
and was renovated in 1983. There is a stele dedicated to the ancient altar of
the (spirit mediums) of the past. The commemorative stele describing renovations is dated 1984. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄
天上帝 and Dufu tongbing Zhu yuanshuai 都副统兵朱元帅. Other gods
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

953

include Dutian yuanshuai Li 都天元帅李, Fatian shengjun Zhang 法天圣君
张, Zhengyi lingguan Han 正一灵官韩, Ma 马, Chen 陈, and Zhu 朱, Taiyi
xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,
Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and the two pairs of
Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Tiyunshê 梯云
社 and Linzhenshê 麟振社. Mazu 妈祖 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 originally had their own temples which belong to the Zhuo 卓 surname group,
but these temples were abandoned later on and the gods moved to the right
side hall of this temple. This is known as the Zhuo 卓 of Liujing 刘井 selling
off the temple to carve the sedan chair “卖宫雕轿”.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions In the first month, a procession is held
for one day on a day determined by divination in. The main gods and the
other gods of the neighborhoods participate in the procession. The order
of the procession is “first the generals, then the great gods”. The procession
goes through the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境 to visit all
the villages of Jiangkou in order. The elders who are married and those who
have a child born to them that year become the head persons (Touren) 头人.
Apart from the per capita based contribution collections, the head persons
are responsible for absorbing the additional expenses.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The following god’s birthdays are organized by the village as a whole:
2/25 and 9/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.
3/3:
The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
6/6:
The birthday celebration of Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈.
8/15:
The birthday celebration of Zhugong 朱公.
The most grand birthday celebration is that of the “temple master” 宫主
Zhugong 朱公. Opera is performed for several days. Funds are collected on
a per capita basis.
All other gods have their own celebrations organized by each jia 甲:
4/14:
The birthday celebration of Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 is organized by the Wang 王 and the Fang 方 of Magongjia 马公甲.
4/14:
The birthday celebration of Chen taiwei 陈太尉 is organized
by the Chen 陈 of Chengongjia 陈公甲.
7/23:
The birthday celebration of Zhanggong 张公 is organized by
the Lin 林 and the Zhuo卓 of Zhanggongjia 张公甲.
8/15:
The birthday celebration of Zhugong 朱公 is organized by
the Weng 翁, Wu 吴, and Chen 陈 of Zhugongjia 朱公甲.
8/12:
The birthday celebration of Hangong 韩公 is organized by
the Liu 刘 of Hangongjia 韩公甲.
9/9:
The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is
organized by the Zhuo 卓, Cai 蔡, Weng 翁, and Lin 林 of
Ligongjia 李公甲.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

954

part four

Each jia 甲 selects its own head persons (Touren) 头人 to organize The birthday celebrations of the gods. Opera is usually performed for two to three
days using either transfers from Overseas Chinese or contributions collected
on a per capita basis.
Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 do not have the
birthday celebrations.
5. Ritual Groups The village has an ancient altar dedicated to spirit mediums of the past. The current number of Shentong 神童 is unknown. Guanjie
关戒 has occurred three times. Zhugong 朱公 and Zhanggong 张公 all 降
神 to possess mediums. The village has a Catholic church which is the main
church for Jiangkou.
V663 Qianhui 前会
1. Village settlement Qianhui is part of the Jiangkou township 江口居委
会 and the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. There are currently
more than 300 residents. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The
main livelihood is commerce and industry. There are over a hundred Overseas Chinese in the village.
2. Surname groups The village is inhabited by mixed surname groups.
Surnames include the Wang 王, the Liu刘, the Dong 董, the Lu 卢, the Cai
蔡, the Chen 陈, and the Shê 佘. The Dong 董 and the Lu 卢 are among
the earliest surname groups to settle in the village. The early Sanjiao (Three
in One) disciple 三一教传人 Dongzhian 董直庵 was from this village. No
further information is available as to collective lineage worship.
3. Village temples 1) Miaoyinggong 妙应宫 contains the Xingchunshê
兴春社: The date of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated
in Qing Tongzhi 2 (1863) and in 1982. The main god worshipped, Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, is said to be the Tang high monk 唐代高僧 Huang
Miaoying 黄妙应 who attained nirvana at the nearby Nangshansi 囊山寺.
Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马
圣王 (Zhang Xun 张巡), Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 (Leiwanchun 雷万
春), Beidou shengwang 北斗圣王 (Xu Yuan 许远), Jin dajiangjun 金大将
军 (Huweishen 护卫神, Simengjiang 四猛将 (Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Qiu 邱,
and Liu 刘), Sitongzi 四童子, Mazu 妈祖, Guanyin 观音, Hufa jialan 护法伽
蓝, Zhaoshun shengwang 昭顺圣王 (Jiang Guojiu 江国舅), Ansheng lingfei
安圣灵妃 (Jiang Meifei 江梅妃), Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions In the first month, the Yuanxiao procession is held on a day determined by divination. The procession passes
through the ritual alliance. Four or five head persons (touren) 头人 are

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

955

selected to be responsible for purchasing supplies and organizing the event,
as well as last minute organization of staff. Twelve sedan chairs of the gods
are carried. Funds are collected on a per household basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
On 4/7 and 8/23: The birthday celebrations for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公
元帅 are held. Opera is performed for several days. Each
household contributes 1 yuan 元 per capita. There are also
transfers from Overseas Chinese and personal donations.
The birthday celebrations of the other gods only have a
feast set up with offerings.
5. Ritual Groups There are currently more than ten Tanban 坛班 altar
associates. Guanjie 关戒 has not taken place. Incense is invited from Putian
city 莆田, probably from the main temple dedicated to Tiangong Yuanshuai
田公元帅, the Ruiyundian 瑞云殿.
V664

Duweitou 度围头

1. Village settlement Duweitou village belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Duweitou is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance
of Jiangkou 江口七境. There are currently approximately 600 inhabitants.
The entire village has four shê 社, which are Sheshê 佘社 (this has become a
shê with mixed surname groups, with more than 200 people), Chenshê 陈社
(this too has become a shê with mixed surname groups, more than 200 people), Guoshê 郭社 (this has more than 300 people), and Caishê 蔡社 (where
the dominate surname group today is the Wang 王, with more than 100
people). The main livelihoods are agriculture and fishery. There are approximately 800 Overseas Chinese living abroad connected to this village.
2. Surname groups The earlier settlers include the Shê 佘, the Chen 陈,
the Guo 郭, and the Cai 蔡. Later on, the Zhuang 庄, the Dai 戴, and the
Wang 王 also moved in. The origins of each surname group, their population size and branch information is unknown. There are no ancestral halls
or lineage genealogies.
3. Village temples 1) Qingdatang 清达堂 is part of the Jinjiang Longmenfang 锦江龙门坊, and contains the Longxingshê 龙兴社. According
to the 重建清达堂碑序 (Preface to the stele for the reconstruction of Qingdatang), the temple was originally built during the Song Dynasty. It was
renovated three times, in Qing Kangxi 60 (1721), Qianlong 25 (1760), and
during the Jiaqing period (1796–1820). It was rebuilt in 1990. The main god
worshipped is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Other gods include Yidian zhenjun
一殿真君 (Chenshê 陈社), Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Sima shengwang 司马
圣王 (Chenshê 陈社), Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 (Caishê 蔡

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

956

part four

社), Wu’anwang 武按王 (Guoshê 郭社), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (Sheshê
佘社), Liumihou 六弥猴 (Sheshê 佘社), Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Yuanxiao is celebrated and
fu 符 talismans are distributed to each household; On 1/14, a procession is
held. Every year, each shê take turns to play the following roles: one becomes
the chief manager 总理, one takes care of the kitchens, one is in charge of
purchases, and one is in charge of setting up the worshipping tables (for
offerings to be placed on). Each year these duties rotate. Funds are collected
on a per capita basis and from Fushou households 福首户. There are also
transfers from Oveseas Chinese.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25 and on 9/25: The birthday celebrations for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is
organized by the entire village. Each jia 甲 has two board
members, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
2/25:
An additional birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng
齐天大圣 is organized by the Sheshê 佘社.
5/13:
The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is
organized by the entire village.
6/10:
The birthday celebration of Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 is
organized by the Chenshê 陈社.
7/7:
The birthday celebration of Wu’anwang 武按王 is organized by the Guoshê 郭社.
7/13:
The birthday celebration of Beidou zhongtian dasheng
北斗中天大圣 is organized by the Caishê 蔡社.
Each shê supplies contributions according to the number of people. Opera is
performed for several days.
5. Ritual Groups The village has a 历代古坛 ancient altar of the spirit
mediums of the past. There are currently 36 Tanban 坛班 altar associates,
and guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has occurred. The traditional
order (Guli) 古例 was revived on lunar 1/ 25 of 1987. All the members 诸
道友 of different generations of Tanban 坛班 members were divided into
11 jiu 阄 (shares), and take turns to 当家 look after the ritual needs of the
temple. Each jiu (share) is made up of three people. Those not serving in the
temple are in charge of the purchases for the ritual. There is Gongcaohui “功
曹会” (Association of the Spirit Officials), that is, a common gathering of the
Tanban 坛班总集会, during Yuanxiao 元宵. There is also Fushouyan “福首
宴”, that is, every household contributes donation to collectively organize
and pay for the offerings. In 1987, there were 118 Fushou 福首. During the
Republican period, the village had a few small temples, but they no longer
exist. There is a Cishouan “慈寿庵” in which the main god worshipped is

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

957

Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. There used to be fifteen nuns with 4–5 acres of land.
Now it is run by by three old nuns.
V665

Gangxia 港下

1. Village settlement Gangxia belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Gangxia is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou
江口七境. The current population is close to 1500 people, and is divided into
five shê: Chenshê 陈社 has approximately 40 households; Heshê 何社 has
more than 90 households; Zhuoshê 卓社 has 33 households; Zhongshê 中社
has close to 50 households, with surnames including the Lin 林, the Huang
黄, the Zhang 张, and the Guo 郭; and Wenmingshê 文明社 has approximately 50 households, with surnames including the Fang 方, Shê 佘, Kong
孔, and Li 李. The main livelihood is fishing. 80% of the local population are
dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The earliest settlers were the Chen 陈, the He 何, and
the Zhuo 卓. The He has the most people, followed by the Chen and the
Zhuo. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口, and are known as the Chen of
Yuhu 玉湖陈. They have an ancestral hall called Xiuyuantang 秀源堂. They
also take part in the ritual activities of the Erxiangtang 二相堂 ancestral hall
in Xiaoyi 孝义. The origins of all the other surname groups are unknown.
The Zhuo 卓 ancestral hall has been abandoned.
3. Village temples 1) The Fuhaitang 福海堂 contains the Ningjiangshê
宁江社. According to the stele recording the reconstruction, the temple was
originally called Fuhaian 福海庵. It is claimed that the temple was originally built in the Northern Song in Jianlong 1 (960), and was renamed as a
“tang” 堂 in Ming Wanli 8 (1580). The temple was renovated once during the
Qianlong period, and once after 1981. The main gods worshipped are Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君) and Tianshang shengmu 天上
圣母. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 (Zhongshê 中社),
Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 (Wenmingshê 文明社), Xiaogong shenghou 肖公
圣侯 (Heshê 何社), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (Chenshê 陈社), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 (Zhuoshê 卓社), Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Chenshi
zhenren 陈氏真人 (Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Linshui furen 临水夫人),
Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Hufa jialan 护法伽蓝, Guan gong 关公, Weituo
韦驮, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Fude zhengshen 福德正
神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wugong dutong
吴公都统, Jingong dutong 金公都统, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianpeng
yuanshuai 天蓬元帅, Jixiang erjiang 吉祥二将, Qingjin zhenren 青巾真人,
and Jinshi xiangu 金氏仙姑.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

958

part four

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions In the first month, on a day determined
by divination, the Yuanxiao 元宵 procession is held for one day. The procession passes through the sevenfold ritual alliance, and it is hosted by the five
shê one by one, the first and last household of the hosting shê are those of
the head persons 头人. Funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/15:
The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held,
and the entire village organizes the celebration. Opera is performed ten times. Funds are collected on a per capita basis.
There are also transfers from Overseas Chinese and voluntary
contributions.
3/23 and 9/9: The birthday celebrations for Tianhou 天后 are held.
4/13:
The birthday celebrations for Liugong 刘公 is organized by
the Zhuoshê 卓社.
5/5:
The birthday celebration of Shêgong 社公 is held. Each household prepares offerings in the temple.
7/1:
The birthday celebration of Xiaogong 肖公 is organized by the
Heshê 何社.
7/23:
The birthday celebration of Zhanggong 张公 is organized by
the Chenshê 陈社.
8/15:
The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Wenmingshê 文明社.
9/9:
The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is
organized by the Zhongshê 中社.
The birthday celebrations of the gods are hosted by the first and last households of the hosting shê. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is
performed for several days.
Opera is not performed for the other birthday celebrations. Worship offerings are organized by the village temple.
5. Ritual Groups Fuhaitang 福海堂 has a 历代古坛 ancient altar of the
(spirit mediums of) of the past. According to the stone inscription from
1935, there were then a total of eight Shentong 神童 spirit mediums. In
recent years, guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred once. The
number of members of the Tanban 坛班 altar association is unknown. The
village originally had a Sanjiaoci 三教祠 and a Buddhist nunnery 尼姑, but
now they no longer exist.
V666 Houdun 后墩
1. Village settlement Houdun belongs to the Jingkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Houdun is one of the sevenfold ritual territories of Jiangkou
江口七境. The current population is approximately 1400 people, and the vilKenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

959

lage is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Jiucuo 旧厝, Xiacuo 下厝,
Beitoucuo 北头厝 and Xincuo 新厝. The main livelihoods are fishing and
commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups Houdun originally was made up of the Zheng 郑 and
the He 何 surname groups, but later the He moved away. Today, the main
surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Ma 马 and the
Guo 郭. The Zheng 郑 are divided into four zhu 柱 groupings according to
their locations: Jiucuo 旧厝, Xincuo 新厝, Xiacuo 下厝, and Beitoucuo 北
头厝. There is no ancestral hall or lineage genealogy, and lineage rituals are
not practiced. Being surname groups that have only moved into the village
in recent years, both the Ma 马 and the Guo 郭 have relatively less people in
comparison with other surname groups. Together, the two surnames create
one relatively independent ritual group.
3. Village temples 1) Lutaigong 炉台宫 is part of Houdunfang 后墩坊
and contains the Longjinshê 龙津社. The year of the original construction
is unknown. The temple was renovated in 1982. The main god worshipped
is Wuxian lingguan Ma yuanshuai 五显灵官马元帅 (Huaguang dadi 华
光大帝). Other gods include Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 (belongs to
Beitoucuo 北头厝), Wugong dutong 吴公都统 (belongs to Jiucuo 旧厝),
Tongling Jin dajiangjun 统领金大将军 (belongs to the Shentong 神童), Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 (belongs to Xiacuo 下厝), Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣
(belongs to the Ma 马 and Guo 郭 surname groups), Tiangong yuanshuai
田公元帅 (belongs to Xincuo 新厝), Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong
shenghou 金公圣侯, Zhenggong shenghou 郑公圣侯 (belongs to Xiacuo 下
厝), Huye jiangjun 虎爷将军, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, Zunzhu mingwang
尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Guanyin
dashi 观音大士.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao In the first month, on a day determined by divination, a procession is held within the sevenfold ritual alliance for a day. The
four jia 甲 take turns to be the host. Each jia also contributes three to five
people to be part of the administration of the event. Funds are collected on
a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/14: The birthday celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is organized by
the Shentong 神童 spirit mediums. The birthday celebration of Jialuo
dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Ma and the Guo 郭 surname
groups.
4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian lingguan Ma yuanshuai 五显灵
官马元帅 is held. The worshipping is organized all together. Opera
is performed, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. There are
transfers from Overseas Chinese and personal donations.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

960

part four

5/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Xincuo jia 新厝甲.
6/6: The birthday celebrations for Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 is organized by Beitoucuo 北头厝. The birthday celebration of Jixiang dajiang
吉祥大将 and Zhenggong shenghou 郑公圣侯 is organized by the
Jiucuo 旧厝.
All other the birthday celebrations are organized all together by the temple. Opera is usually not performed. For the birthday celebrations for Mazu
妈祖 and Guanyin 观音, each household takes care of its own offerings.
There are also personal donations for operas and movies.
5. Ritual Groups Lutaigong 炉台宫 has a lidai gutan 历代古坛 (ancient
altar of the spirit mediums through the ages). Eight Shentong 神童 spirit
medium’s names are listed in a stele dating to 1982. In recent years, guanjie
关戒 spirit medium training has occurred at least once. The number of Tanban 坛班 altar associates is unknown.
V667

Xinjing 新井

1. Village settlement Xingjing belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Xinjing is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou
江口七境. There are currently approximately 300 people, and the village is
not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is commerce. There are
many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何. Other surname
groups include the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林 and the Li 李. It is said that the He
何 of Xinjing 新井 are the earliest residents of Jiangkou 江口. Their descendents are dispersed in several villages throughout the Jiangkou 江口 region.
There is a Lin 林 ancestral hall that has been recently rebuilt.
3. Village temples 1) Fengchigong 凤池宫 is located within Jinjiang
fengchifang 锦江凤池坊 and contains the Longjin beishê 龙津北社. This
temple branched out from the Lutaigong 炉台宫. Originally built during the
Ming Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt during Qing Qianlong period (1736–
1795), and was renovated in 1927 and in 1982. The main gods worshipped
are Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 and Yishan dadi 意山大帝. Secondary gods worshipped are Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhouguang
pingwang 周广平王, Zhonggong dutong 郑公都统, Wugong dutong 吴公都
统, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Hugong jiangjun 虎公将军,
Dongxi shizhe 东西使者, Panguan jijiang 判官吉将, Zunzhu mingwang 尊
主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Guanyin dashi
观音大士, and Wenwu zhujiang 文武诸将.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

961

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions There are no processions. Decorated
towers 彩楼 are constructed to welcome the arrival of the gods from each
temple. On 1/15, a feast is organized to worship the gods. Funds are collected
on a per household basis, and it is organized all together.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/14: The birthday celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is held.
4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 is held.
9/28: The birthday celebration of Yishan dadi 意山大帝 is held.
A feast is set up to worship the gods. Opera is performed for two to three
days each time. Funds are collected on a per household basis. There are also
personal donations.
A148 Fushan qijing (Fushan sevenfold ritual alliance) 凫山七境
The Fushan sevenfold ritual alliance is located within the Nanan Weir 南安
陂引水渠, alongside the main upper channel drawing water into the Jiuliyang irrigation system 九里洋上沟. This area was part of the Qianwangpu
前王铺 (police/defense unit) of Daishengli 待贤里 sub-canton. In the Ming,
the villages of Qianwang 前王, Guanhou 观后 (Shishi 石狮) and Shaohui 烧
灰 (Shangkui 上魁) were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shantou
山头, Youlong 游陇 (Youlan 油岚), Qiangli 墙里 and Dixin 递新 separated
off. Of these villages, Qiangli 墙里 and Dixin 递新 have already been abandoned. Currently there are five villages in the area.
The Fushanshê 凫山社 temple, located in Qianwang 前王 village, is the
founding she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include
Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong
yuanshuai 康公圣君, Dutian yuanshuia 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公
元帅 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Originally there were joint Yuanxiao
processions and collective celebrations of the birthday celebrations of the
gods at the Fushanshê. More recently, the gods of the Fushanshê have been
distributed to each village she-altar to be worshipped locally, and there no
longer are common rituals held in the alliance.
In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages Qiangwang
前王, Shantou 山头, Shishi 石灰 and Youlan were all members of the white
banner alliance, while Shihui was a member of the black banner alliance.
During the Ming, Qianwang 前王 was famous for its successful examination candidates. The Zhuang 庄 and the Wang lineages together produced
four Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) and one Juren (Provincial Candidate).

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

Fushan sevenfold ritual alliance

part four

A148

962

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

963

(V668 Qianwang 前王)
1. Village settlement Qianwang is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Fushan 凫山七境. It belongs to the Xinqian Administrative Village 新前
行政村. There are more than 1000 people living in the village. It is divided
into the following neighborhoods: Beitou 陂头, Houcheng 后埕, Wumen
乌门, and Liudong 六冬. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many
dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wang 王. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Xiao 肖, Huang 黄, Liu 刘, and Quan
全. The Wang are the earliest settlers of the village. It is said that during the
Ming and the Qing dynasties, members of the Wang held political office for
eighteen generations, and that they held special power over the Nanan 南安
weir and its irrigation channels. There is an ancestral hall common to the
entire surname group, but its ritual practices are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Fushanshê 凫山社: Originally the main temple of
the sevenfold ritual alliance, it now belongs to Qianwang village 前王村. The
gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人,
Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong
shengjun 康公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公
元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.
2) Qingjingtan 清静坛 contains the Yiyi zushê 仪依祖社. The original date
of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated in 1915. The main
gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Dongyue zhusheng
dadi 东岳注生大帝. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian
dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣
君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and
Houtu furen 后土夫人.
3) Wenxingshê 文兴社: The main god is Shuitou wang 水头王 (Tang san
zang 唐三藏). Other gods include Wangfu 王父, Wangmu 王母, Qitian
dasheng 齐天大圣 (Sun Wukong), Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 ( Ju Bajie),
Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Cibeigong 慈
悲公 (Liumihou 六猕猴), Heibaijiang 黑白将
4) Putuo’an Buddhist nunnery 普陀庵 originally belonged to the Gufengsi
nunnery 鼓峰寺廨院尼庵. A memorial arch “Zhijie xingfang” 志洁行芳 at
the nunnery was inscribed by President of the National Government Lin Sen
林森. In 1986, training courses for Buddhist nuns were set up here. (PTZJZCG,
1992:210).
5) Donglaisi Buddhist temple 东来寺. The temple has preserved an stele
entitled (Record of the reconstruction of Shrine in Remembrance of the virtuous merit of those who constructed and repaired the Nanan Weir), dating
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

964

part four

to Qinglong 57 (1792) (PTZJZCG, 1992:210) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:
261, No. 224).
6) Jimingtang 济明堂 was built in Guangxu 6 (1880) (PTZJZCG,
1992:210).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, gods go on procession for one
day. It used to be that each jia 甲 selected one head person (Touren) to be
the host. Now, the event is co-organized by the board of directors and the
Tanban 坛班, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Hei bai jiang 黑白将
is organized by Houchengfang 后埕房.
6/8: The celebration of Shuitou wang 水头王 is organized by Liudongfang
六冬房.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong 张公 is organized by Biandongfang 便
东房.
8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the entire
village.
9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by
Wumenfang 乌门房.
The birthday celebration of Liumihou 六猕猴 is organized by Beitou 陂头.
5. Ritual Groups The village has more than ten old tanban 坛班 altar
association members. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred in
recent years.
V669

Shihui 石灰

1. Village settlement Shihui was originally known as Shangkui 上魁 and
Shaohui 烧灰. Shuihui is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山
七境 and belongs Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行政村. The village
currently has 380 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The
main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the You 游, the Chen 陈, the Lin
林, and the Quan 全. The You are the earliest settlers of the village. It is said
that the You emigrated from Tongan 同安 in the late-Song dynasty. The
origins of the other surnames are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Zhenwudian 真武殿 in the Shangkuijing 上魁境
contains the Mingxingshê 民兴社. The temple was originally constructed in
the Yuan Dynasty. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主
明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods
include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 (branched out from Fushanshê 凫山
社), Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣君, Liugong

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

965

yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Kanggong yuanshuai 康
公元帅, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元
帅 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 go on procession for one day. Each year,
four head persons are selected to be the hosts.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The birthday celebrations of the gods
are organized all together. Opera is usually not performed.
V670 Shantou 山头
1. Village settlement Shantou is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Fushan 凫山七境. Shantou is part of the Xinqian Administrative Village
新前行政村. There are currently more than 100 people living in the village.
The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wang 王, Huang 黄, and Liu
刘. The Wang emigrated from Qianwang 前王. There currently are only a
few households of the Huang and the Liu surname groups, but their origins
are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Cangshanshê 苍山社: The date of construction is
unknown. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and
Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu
天上圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军 (Baiya zhongjun 白
牙中军). Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu shenghou 柳
圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Mituo dasheng 弥陀大圣, and Panguan jishi
判官圣使.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Daoist Masters 师公 are invited
to conduct a Daochang 道场. There is no procession of the gods.
Birthday celebrations of the gods On the birthdays of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Lingya zhongjun 灵牙
中军, offerings and worship are organized by the Gonggong 宫公 (temple
keeper). Opera is not performed.
V671 Youlan 油岚
1. Village settlement Youlan is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Fushan 凫山七境. Youlan is part of the Xinqian Administrative Village 新
前行政村. There are currently more than 380 people in the village, and are
divided into four neighborhoods: Qiangnei 墙内, Houying 后营, Xiacuo
下厝, and Weicuo 尾厝. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many
dependent families of Overseas Chinese.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

966

part four

2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李 and the Guo
郭. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Guan 关. Their origins are
unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Xinxianshê 兴贤社: The original date of construction is unknown. It is said that this is the oldest Taishifu 太师府 in the
area. The main gods worshipped are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Sima
shengwang 司马圣王, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qiu jiangjun 邱将军, Liu
taibao 刘太保, Chen taibao 陈太保, Zou dutong 邹都统, and Panguan jishi
判官吉使.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师
goes on a procession through the entire village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨太师 is organized by
the whole village.
5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Li
李 of Qiannei 前内.
7/7: The celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is organized by the Li
李 of Houying 后营.
7/13: The celebration of Beidou zhongtian 北斗中天 is organized by the Li
李 of Xiacuo 下厝.
9/19: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the
Guo 郭 of Weicuo 尾厝.
V672

Shishi 石狮

1. Village settlement Shishi was originally called Guanhou 观后. Shishi
is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山七境. The village is
part of the Shishi Administrative Village 石狮行政村. Shishi is subdivided
into natural villages such as Shandou 山兜, Shihuan 狮环, Shipaihou 石牌后
and Sishui 泗水. The total population is approximately 4000 people. The
main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The village has surnames such as the Xue 薛, Chen
陈, Dai 戴, Lin 林, and Zheng 郑. The Xue and the Chen live in Shiqiu 狮
球, while the Dai 戴 live in Shipaihou 石牌后, and the Lin 林 and the Zheng
郑 live in Sishui 泗水. The Dai has a lineage genealogy and had moved from
Tongan 同安 during the late-Ming dynasty. The origins of the other surnames are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Fenglaigong 凤来宫 was built during the Ming
dynasty. The gods worshipped are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Yanggong taishi
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

967

杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Kuixing Wu yuanshuai 魁星武元
帅, Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.
2) Xinglongshê 兴隆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and
Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使.
3) Jiangshengdian 降盛殿 is in Sishui 泗水 and is dedicated to Xuantian
shangdi 玄天上帝.
4) Yujingdian 玉晶殿 in Shipaihou 石牌后 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
5) Xilaisi Buddhist temple 西来寺 is a branch temple of the Gufeng monastery 鼓峰寺. This temple was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908) by
Buddhist monk Huairen 怀仁 and was rebuilt by overseas Chinese in 1989.
(PTZJZCG, 1992:212).
6) Tianhusi Buddhist temple 天湖寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:212).
7) Linyunting Buddhist pagoda 凌云亭 (PTZJZCG, 1992:212).
8) Jiyuantang Buddhist hall 济源堂 was built in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:
212).
9) Shunyutang 顺玉堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,
1992: 33 records 107 initiates.
10) Xiangshansi Buddhist temple 香山寺 was originally built in the Tang
and rebuilt in the Shunzhi period (1644–1661) (PTZJZCG, 1992:211).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, a common procession is
held. On 1/15, a Baojingjiao 保境醮 (Daoist communal sacrifice to protect
the boundaries of the village) is performed. These events are hosted by the
Tanban 坛班 altar association. Those that give voluntary donations becomes
Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the 戴 of
Shandou 山兜.
2/25: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 organized by the Xue 薛 and the Chen 陈 of
Shiqiu 狮球.
3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the
戴 of Shandou 山兜.
4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅is organized by
Shipaihou 石牌后.
4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Xue
薛 and the Chen 陈 of Shiqiu 狮球.
8/9: The celebration of Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 is organized by Shipaihou
石牌后.
8/20: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the
Xue 薛 and the Chen 陈 of Shiqiu 狮球.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

968

part four

9/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenchang dijun
文昌帝君 are organized by the Lin 林 and the Zheng 郑 of Sishui
泗水.
5. Ritual Groups Fenglaigong 凤来宫 has forty-four members of its Tanban 坛班 altar association, of which there are fourteen shentong 神童 for
Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, thirteen for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, thirteen for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and four for Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军.
Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred twice, in the 9th lunar
month of 1985, and in the 10th lunar month of 1991.
A149

Goushang qijing (Goushang sevenfold ritual alliance) 沟上七境

The Goushang sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the lower main channel of the Jiuliyang irrigation system 九里洋下沟. This area was part of the
Dongshê Donglipu 东佘 东利铺 (police/defense unit) of Daixianli 待贤里
sub-canton In the Ming, the villages of Goushang 沟上 (Houyou 后枯),
Chendun 陈墩 (Dingdun 顶墩), Xiadun 下墩, Wudun 吴墩, Xindun 新墩
and Youdun 游墩 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Zheche 蔗
车 and Houchengpu 后埕埔 separated off from Goushang 沟上 village. The
villages of Qianmian 前面, Xindian 新店, Licuo 李厝 and Tianzhongyang
田中央 separated off from Xindun 新墩 village in the late Qing.
The Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 temple, located in Qianmian 前面 village, was the
founding she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Towards the end of the
Qing, this altar underwent a process of division of she-altars, in which all
the villages that had originally belonged to it set up their own village shealtars. These include the Jifushê 集福社 of Youdun 游墩, Dingdun 顶墩
and Xiadun 下墩 and the Xinxingshê 新兴社 of Houku 后枯, Licuo 李厝,
Xindun 新墩 and Houchengpu 后埕埔. Nowadays, the Jiaxianshê no longer
carries out collective rituals or processions. Each village carries out its own
rituals and processions, but nonetheless still goes to the founding she-altar
to request incense fire 请香火.
In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of
Goushang 沟上, Qianmian 前面, Xindun 新墩, Dingdun 顶墩, Xindian
新店, Zheche 蔗车 and Houchengpu 后埕埔 were part of the black banner
alliance, while the villages of Licuo 李厝, Wudun 吴墩, Xiadun 下墩 and
Youdun 游墩 were part of the white banner alliance.
V673

Goushang 沟上

1. Village settlement Goushang was originally names Houku 后枯. Goshang is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. There
are currently more than 3000 people. The village is divided into five she: in
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

969

A149

Goushang sevenfold ritual alliance

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

970

part four

Sheanshê 佘安社, the main surname group is the Shê 佘; in Lipushê 荔谱
社, the main surname group is the Cai 蔡, but there are also the Huang 黄,
Zhang 张, and Lin 林; in Xiheshê 西河社 the main surname group is the
Lin 林, but there is also the Wu 吴; in Jiyangshê 济阳社, the main surname
group is the Cai 蔡; in Yanlingshê 延陵社, the main surname group is the
Wu 吴. The main livelihoods are agriculture and aquaculture (mainly oysters
and other shellfish) in the inner sea. There are many dependent families of
Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shê 佘, the Li 李, the Cai 蔡,
the Lin 林, and the Wu 吴. The Shê 佘 are the earliest settlers of the village. Now the majority of them have moved to Zheche village 蔗车. The Li
李 emigrated from Baitang 白塘 of Hanjiang 涵江. They originally lived in
Xiacuo 下厝. Later, the Li formed an independent village named Licuo 李厝.
The Cai 蔡 emigrated from Dongsha 东沙 of Lingchuan 灵川. The majority
live in Tianzhongyang 田中央 and Houchengpu 后埕埔. They originally had
a village temple, but it now belongs to Xindun village 新墩. There are some
tens of Cai households.
3. Village temples 1) Weixianmiao 威显庙 is within the Houkujing 后枯
境 spiritual territory, and contains the Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was
originally built during the Ming Dynasty, and was renovated in 1983. The
main god worshipped is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Other gods include
Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王, Beidou zhongtian
dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Sihai longwang 四
海龙王, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅,
Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统, Liugong taibao 刘公太保, Chengong sheren
陈公舍人, Qiugong jiangjun 邱公将军, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Lingya
zhongjun 灵牙中军, Jianyin tongzi 剑印童子, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明
王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and four dutong 都统, namely Chen 陈, Zheng
郑, Qiu 邱, and Liu 刘, who are subordinate to Sima shengwang.
2) Zishanmiao 紫云庙 contains the Qingyuntang 庆云堂 and originally
belonged to the entire Houku 后枯 village. Now it is administrated by Yanlingshê 延陵社. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong
yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Peng taishan 彭泰山.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Mazu 妈祖, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and the main gods of each shê go on procession within the
village for two days. The five shê take turns to be the host. Each shê has Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 descend into the Shentong 神童 to
select two Fushou 福首 (fortunate headsmen). The Fushou have to provide
a feast for the Tanban 坛班.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
1/22: The celebration for Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 is organized by Yanlingshê 延陵社.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

971

3/23: The celebration for Mazu 妈祖 is organized by the entire village.
5/13: The celebration for Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Sheanshê 佘安社.
7/ 3: The celebration for Chengong sheren 陈公舍人 is organized by Sheanshê 佘安社.
7/7: The celebration for Wu’an shengwang 武按圣王 is held.
7/13: The celebration for Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is organized by the Lipushê 荔谱社.
8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the
Yanlingshê 延陵社.
9/14: The celebration for Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by the
Jiyangshê 济阳社.
9/14: The celebration for Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统 and Jin dajiangjun
金大将军 is organized by Xiheshê 西河社.
9/15: The celebration for Liugong taibao 刘公太保 is organized by Lipushê
荔谱社.
The celebrations at each shê usually entails several days of opera performance.
The ritual is mostly organized by the Fushou 福首, and funds are collected
on a per capita basis. All other birthday celebrations only have a feast set up
with the worship offerings. No opera is performed.
As for the birthday celebrations for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong
yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Peng taishan 彭泰山 carried out by the Qingyuntang 庆云堂, the Yanlingshê 延陵社 organizes the offerings and rituals.
Marionette plays are mostly performed.
5. Ritual Groups The Weixianmiao 威显庙 preserves a stele inscribed
古坛禄位碑 which records the ranks and names of the mediums worshipped
at the ancient altar. In 1919, for the three generations bearing the respective
names Wen 文, Yuan 元, and Fu 福, there were a total of twenty-seven
people. In 1983, the three generational names of Guang 光, De 德, and Zhu
智 had a total of fifty-eight people. There are currently more than twenty
Tanban 坛班. There is also a Director of the Tanban 总坛长. Each shê has
several Shentong 神童 mediums, who start to learn xingnuo 行傩 collective
exorcistic dance, nianzhou 念咒 the singing of invocations and spells, and
huafu 画符 the writing of talismans, starting at the age of thirteen or fourteen.
Guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has occurred several times. Wuan 武
按, Beidou 北斗, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and the four Generals Liu
刘, Zheng 郑, Jin 金, and Chen 陈 have descended to possess mediums.
The village has a Ruiguangge 瑞光阁. The main god worshipped is Sizhou
wenfo 泗州文佛. It is said that tinggua “听卦” (prognostication while listening during offerings of incense) is most efficacious at this temple. This temple
preserves a stele composed in Jaiqing 18 (1813) entitled 重修瑞光阁题捐碑
(Stele listing the contributions towards the restoration of the Temple of Auspicious Radiance) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:291, No. 253). The villagers
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

972

part four

worship there freely. There is also the Yuhetang 玉和堂, which is a Three in
One temple 三一教祠. There are currently more than sixty initiates 门人.
V674 Zheche 蔗车
1. Village settlement Zheche belongs to the Haixing Administrative
Village 海星行政村. The residents emigrated from Houku 后枯. There are
currently more than 200 people who are not divided into neighborhoods.
The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce.
2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Shê 佘. It is divided
into four branches. The ancestral hall is located in Licuo 李厝. As a result of
being bullied by others for being a minority, some residents moved to other
places. However, there are still more than ten households and close to 100
people living in Houku 后枯. These families from Zheche and Houku combine to form the Sheanshê “佘安社”, and to participate in the ritual activities
of the Weixianmiao 威显庙.
3. Village temples 1) Weixiantang 威显堂 is dedicated to Tianshang
shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Other gods include
Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王,
Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chengong sheren 陈公舍人, Zhenggong
dutong 郑公都统, Qiugong jiangjun 邱公将军, Liugong taibao 刘公太保,
Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙
中军, Daye and Erye 大爷二爷. This temple preserves a stele composed in
1919 entitled 列代古坛香位碑 (Stele listing the names of the spirit mediums
belonging to the altar through the ages) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:361,
No. 325).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions
On 1/15, villagers participate in the festival of Weixian miao 威显庙 of
Houku 后枯 for one day. The main gods of their own home temple do not
go on procession. Instead, opera is performed in front of the temple, and
funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held.
7/7: The birthday celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is held.
Opera is performed in front of Weixianmiao 威显庙. The village temple
organizes a feast set up with offerings. Funds are collected on a per capita
basis.
5. Ritual Groups The village has a number of Shentong 神童 spirit mediums who take part in the guanjie 关戒 (training sessions) and xingno 行傩
(mediumistic dance procession) of Weixianmiao 威显庙. Spirit mediums are
possessed by Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 of the home temple 降神.
V675 Licuo 李厝
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

973

1. Village settlement Licuo is both a natural village, and an Administrative Village. Licuo is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上
七境. Licuo originally belonged to Houku 后枯 and was called Xiacuo 下厝,
but it later became an independent village. There are currently more than
2000 people in the village, and it is divided into ritual and territorial units
such as Zhangfangtou 长房头 (more than 200 people), Erfangtou 二房头
(more than 200 people), Shangjia 上甲 (more than 300 people), Weicuo 尾厝
(more than 300 people), Liuzu 六祖 (more than 300 people), and Bazu
八祖 (approximately 350 people). All of these are referred to as Jia 甲 (neighborhoods). The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. There are
many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. There is a Li Ancestral hall
in the village and the hall preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 6 (1741),
entitled 李族建祠捐金碑 (Stele listing the money contributed to the construction of the Ancestral hall of the Li lineage) (Epigraphical Materials,
1995:231, No. 200).
2. Surname groups 90% of the villagers are of the Li 李 surname group.
Other surnames include the Shê 佘and the Hong 洪, each having dozens of
people. The Li 李 are said to have emigrated from Baitang 白塘 in Hanjiang
涵江. They have combined their lineage genealogy with that of the Li 李 of
Baitang 白塘. A Li ancestral hall is in Xindun village 新墩村.
3. Village temples 1) Weixiandian 威显殿 was renovated in the Qing
Daoguang 8 (1828). The main god worshipped is Beidou zhongtian dasheng
北斗中天大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qingshan wanggong 青山王公, Sihai longwang 四海龙王, Qiugong jiangjun 邱
公将军, Liugong jiangjun 刘公将军.
2) Xinxingshê 新兴社: The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang
尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary deities include Panguan
判官and Jishi 吉使.
3) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 contains the Longxingshê 龙兴社 and was originally
constructed during the Ming Dynasty. Originally this temple belonged to
the Shê 佘 lineage group, but nowadays it belongs to the Li 李. Gods worshipped include Xianling dawang 显灵大王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅,
Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xuantan yuanshuai
玄坛元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅,
Yuhuang taizi 玉皇太子, Shêgong Shêma 社公社妈. There are twnety-one
Tanban 坛班 altar associates who are responsible for the welcoming and
sending away of the gods during Yuanxiao 元宵 and for the birthday celebrations of the gods.
4) Fengyidian 凤仪殿: The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天
上帝. Other gods include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Xuantan yuanshuai
玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, and Aye
gong 阿爷公.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

974

part four

5) Chengmingtang 诚明堂 or Laojundian (老君殿) was originally a Christian church, but now is dedicated to the worship of Taishang laojun 太上
老君 as well as Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Rulai fozu 如来佛祖, Guan-sheng
dijun 关圣帝君, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人,
Luzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Han jiangjun
汉将军.
6) Zongyu Shuyuan 宗玉书院 was built in Qing Guangxu 31 (1905) to worship the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩). It has over one hundred adherents.
7) Guanyinting 观音亭 was renovated in Qing Qianlong 51 (1786). The
main god worshipped is Guanyin dashi 观音大士.
8) Songyutang 宋玉堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,
1992:33 records 97 initiates.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, all the gods of Weixiandian
威显殿 go on procession within the village itself and around Xiandianhou
新店后. The main gods of each shê 社 return to their original jiatou 甲头
(neighborhood) for processions. The processions are organized by the entire
village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The birthday celebrations for all the
gods of Fengyidian 凤仪殿 and Guanyinting 观音亭 are celebrated by the
entire village all together. Offerings are set up and opera is performed. Funds
are collected either on a per capita basis, or by personal donations.
The birthday celebrations for all the gods of Weixianidian 威显殿 are organized by each shê separately:
4/15: The celebration of Qiugong jiangjun 邱公将军 is organized by Zhangfangtou 长房头.
4/19: The celebration for Longwang 龙王 is organized by the Liuzu 六祖,
Bazu 八祖 and Weicuo 尾厝 neighborhoods together;
7/15: The celebration for Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is organized by the Liuzu 六祖, Bazu 八祖 and Weicuo 尾厝 neighborhoods
together;
8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the
Shangjia and Xiajia 上下甲 neighborhoods together.
10/15: The celebration for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by
Zhangfangtou 长房头.
10/23: The celebration for Qingshan wanggong 青山王公 is organized by
Erfangtou 二房头.
Every year, each shê has several Fushous 福首. Funds are collected on a per
capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There are currently 21 members of the Tanban of Fuxingtang 福兴堂坛班. They take charge of rites of sending off and re-inviting the gods at New Years, and the celebrations of the gods of the temple.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

975

Fengyidian 凤仪殿 also has an altar association (tanban), and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is the main Tanshen 坛神 (altar deity who most commonly
descends to possess spirit mediums). The selection of Shentong 神童 mediums needs to receive the consent of the god Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅.
The village originally had a Christian church, but it has now been transformed into a Laojundian 老君殿 (see above). There is also Xianshilou
“仙师楼” which is located in a villager’s house. The gods worshipped include
Yuanshi tianzun 元始天尊, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Zhanggong zhenjun 张公真君. Every night, there are
some disciples who gather together to chant the scriptures and practice self
cultivation.
V676 Xindian 新店
1. Village settlement Xindian currently is part of Xinqian village 新前村.
The residents mostly came from Goushang 沟上 village during the late Qing
Dynasty. There are currently more than 1000 people in Xindian. They are
divided Qiancuoan 前厝埯, Houan 后埯, Daobanzhan 道班站 and all the
jia (neighborhoods) of the Chen 陈 surname group. The main livelihoods
are agriculture and commerce.
2. Surname groups Xindian was originally settled by the Chen 陈 surname group. Today, the Li 李 surname group is the majority. The Li emigrated from Licuo 李厝, and belongs to the Zhangfangtou 长房头. The Li
ancestral hall is in Xindun 新墩.
3. Village temples 1) Longyoutang 隆佑堂 was built in Qing Daoguang
13 (1833). The gods worshipped are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mituo dajiang 弥陀
大将, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, and Wenwu
zhushen 文武诸神.
2) Fuxingshê 复兴社 was originally a small shrine dedicated to the Buddha Fozu 佛祖. Now the gods worshipped in the temple are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公
元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, the Four Ferocious
Generals Jin 金, Chen 陈, Zhu 朱, and Li 李 Sijia mengjiang 四家猛将, the
three Commanders in Chief Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Lin 林三都统, the
Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen
后土夫人.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The gods of the village do not go on a
procession in their own village. However, they do participate in the procession of Weixiandian 威显殿 of Licuo 李厝, but a Daoist Jiao ritual is conducted in the village.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

976

part four

The birthday celebrations for the gods The birthday celebrations for all
the gods of Fuxingshê 复兴社 are organized by the entire village all together.
They are conducted by Tanban 坛班 altar associates.
3/15: The celebration for Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held.
4/13: The celebration for Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held.
9/9: The celebration for Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held.
On all these ritual-events, opera is performed. All other gods only have offering tables set up in front of their altars.
The birthday celebrations for all the gods of Longyoutang 隆佑堂 are organized by each jia tou 甲头.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the
Chen 陈.
8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the
Li 李 of Houan 后埯.
9/9: The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is organized by the Li 李
of Daobanzhan 道班站.
9/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Li 李
of Qiancuoan 前厝埯.
5. Ritual Groups There are currently more than 30 Tanban 坛班 altar
associates. The first Guanjie 关戒 occurred 80 years ago. The second Guanjie
was in 1993. All the gods of the Fuxingshê are worshipped and descend into
and possess the Tanban 坛班. This temple has the characteristics of a Dong
“洞” a spirit medium “cavern”.
V677

Xindun 新墩

1. Village settlement Xindun is both a natural and an administrative village and is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. The
village currently has more than 1700 people. It is divided into four jia 甲
(neighborhoods): Houcuo 后厝, Weicuo 尾厝, Shimen 石门, and Jingtou
井头. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. There are many
dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups All the residents of Xindun are of the Li 李 surname
group. It is said that the Li emigrated from Baitang 白塘 in Hanjiang 涵江.
There is a lineage genealogy. The Li ancestral hall 李氏宗祠 was constructed
in the Qing Qianlong 19 (1754). The hall preserves a stele entitled 李族倡
建宗祠碑 (Stele on the construction of the ancestral hall of the Li lineage)
from Qianlong 19 (1754) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:234, No. 203) and a
second stele composed in Qianlong 49 (1784) entitled 李族增置祀业董事碑
(Stele listing the management committee of the expanded sacrificial foundation of the Dongli Ancestral hall of the Li lineage) (Epigraphical Materials,
1995:254, No. 219).
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

977

3. Village temples 1) Fuhuitang 福惠堂 was built in Qing Jiaqing 10
(1805), and contains the Xinxingshê 新兴社, which divided off` from the
original Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple preserves a Fuhuitang xinxingshê
zhi 福惠堂新兴社志 (Temple Gazetteer of Fuhaitang Xinxingshe). The temple was renovated in 1981. The main gods worshipped are Yuantian shangdi
元天上帝 and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Other gods include Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康
公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君,
Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Tiankui dikui 天魁地魁, Zunzhu mingwang 尊
主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Jinguan xiangu 金观仙姑 (Taiyi xiangu
太乙仙姑).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝,
Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, and the main gods of one of the four jia go on
procession. All the married men of the village take turns one by one to be
the head person (Touren) 头人, all others are on the staff. The procession
route is determined by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄. The first and last
households have to invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct rituals. All other
expenses are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The following celebrations are organized by the village as a whole:
3/3:
The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held.
5/5:
The celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝 is held.
8/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is held.
10/10: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held.
On these occasions, funds are collected according to the total population of
the entire village. All other the birthday celebrations are paid for by each jia
as follows:
3/16: The celebrations of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is sponsored by
Weicuo 尾厝.
4/18: The celebrations of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is sponsored by
Houcuo 后厝.
7/7:
The celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is sponsored by
Weicuo 尾厝.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is sponsored by
Shimen 石门.
9/9:
The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is sponsored by Jingtou
井头.
All the birthday celebrations are hosted by a group of the married men of the
village, selected by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄.
5. Ritual Groups There are two Three in One temples in the village: the
Shunhetang 顺和堂, which has more than 80 adherents, and the Fuxintang
福新堂, which has over 40 adherents. There is also a small temple called
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

978

part four

the Changmingfu 长明府, which worships Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi
zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima dashen 姨妈大神, Li daren 李大人, Hong daren
洪大人, and Zhuo daren 卓大人. This temple is run by an old woman. Each
household worships there on their own volition. The birthday celebrations
for Lufu dashen are held on 5/22. Marionette plays are performed. These are
mostly supported by personal donations. In the Three in One temples one
finds a stele composed in Guangxu 31 (1905) entitled 宗玉堂功德碑 (Stele
recording the merit [arising from the construction of the] Ancestral Jade
[Three in One ] Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:357, No. 320).
V678 Houchengpu 后埕埔
1. Village settlement Houchengpu was originally called Dongshê 东佘
and is located between Houku 后枯 and Xindun 新墩. Houchengpu belongs
to the Xindun Administrative Village 新墩行政村. There are currently 500
people in the village, which is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Tianzhongyang 田中央, Dacuoli 大厝里, Zhengcuo 郑厝, and Houcheng 后埕.
The main livelihoods are agriculture and fishery.
2. Surname groups The majority of the villagers are of the Cai 蔡 surname
group. Only a minority are of the Zheng 郑 surname group. The Cai are said
to have emigrated from Dongsha 东沙 of Lingchuan 灵川.
3. Village temples 1) Yongfutang 永福堂 was renovated in 1983. The
main god worshipped is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Other gods include
Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuxian linggong yuanshuai 五显灵宫元帅,
Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jixiang dajiang 吉
祥大将, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Mashi furen 马氏夫人, Shêgong Shêma
社公社妈, and Wenwu panguan 文武判官.
2) Jinshangong 金山宫 belongs to Houchengpu 后埕埔. The date of construction is unknown. The main god worshipped is Qitian dasheng 齐天
大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mazu 妈祖, Liu
shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅,
Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎
将军, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判.
3) Beixiantang 本显堂 belongs to Houchengpu 后埕埔. The date of construction is unknown. It was rebuilt in 1991. The gods worshipped are Li
daren 李大人, Hong daren 洪大人, and Zhuo daren 卓大人. It is managed
by one woman.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣
君 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of theYongfutang 永福堂 go on procession for one day. Each jia 甲 take turns to be the host, and funds are collected
on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

979

4/15: The birthday celebration for Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held.
8/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人 is held.
On each of these occasions opera is performed for several days. All other the
birthday celebrations of the gods only have offerings set up, but no opera.
Each jia 甲 take turns to be the host, and funds are collected on a per capita
basis.
The birthday celebration of all the gods of Jinshangong 金山宫 are organized
by the residents of Houcheng pu 后埕埔.
9/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed. For the other god’s birthday celebrations, only tables of offerings are set up.
V679

Qianmian 前面

1. Village settlement Qianmian was originally called Dongli 东利. Qianmian is both a natural and an Administrative Village. It is part of the
sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. There are currently more
than 2000 people in the village. It is divided into seven jia 甲: Qianmianwei
前面尾, Tianzhongyang 田中央, Houcuo 后厝, Weicuo 尾厝, Qiaotou 桥头,
Houjiang 后江, and Daimen 埭门. The main livelihoods are agriculture and
commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. Other surnames
include the Zhou 周, the You 游, the Tang 汤, and the Wu 吴. The Li 李 are
said to be of the same ancestry as the Li of Xindun 新墩 and Licuo 李厝. The
Li emigrated from Baitang 白塘 in Hanjiang 涵江 during the Ming Dynasty,
and there have been ten generations up to the present.
3. Village temples 1) Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 is in Donglijing 东利境
and contains the Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社. The temple was renovated in Qing
Qianlong 33 (1768), and in Jiaqing 3 (1798), both restorations having epigraphic records. The temple was renovated again during the period from
1981 to 1984. The main gods worshipped are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君
and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Other gods include Feitian dasheng 飞天
大圣, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅,
Chen dajiangjun 陈大将军, Li dajiangjun 李大将军, Zhu dajiangjun 朱大
将军, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统, Lingong
dutong 林公都统, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军,
Liujia jiangjun 六甲将军, Tiehuan tongzi 铁环童子, Baosong furen 抱送
夫人 (two), Liuding shenjiang 六丁神将, Qinggong zhenren 清宫真人,
Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Rulaifo 如来佛, and Guangong 关公. The temple

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

980

part four

preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 33 (1768) entitled 重修广仁庙碑
记 (Stele recording the restorations to the Temple of Broad Humaneness)
(Epigraphical Materials, 1995:249, No. 214) and another stele composed
in Jiaqing 3 (1798) entitled 重修广仁庙捐款碑 (Stele listing contributions
towards the renovation of the Temple of Broad Humaneness) (Epigraphical
Materials, 1995:264, No. 229).
2) Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿 branched out from Guangrenmiao 广仁庙. The date
of construction is unknown. It was renovated in Qing Tongzhi 6 (1867) and
in 1979. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Ciji
zhenjun 慈济真君. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅,
Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统, Lin dutong 林都统, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Baosong furen 抱送夫人 (two),
Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Tiankui 天魁, and
Dikui 地魁.
3) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: The date of construction is unknown, but this is said
to be the oldest temple in Qianmian 前面. The gods worshipped are Sihai
longwang 四海龙王, Shê gong 社公 and Shê ma 社妈.
4) Kaixingtang 开兴堂 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and also to
the worship of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Li daren 李大人.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅
of Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿 is invited by the Li 李 surname group, Chen dutong
陈都统 is invited by the residents of Houcufang 后厝房, and Jin jiangjun
金将军 is invited by the Zhou 周 surname group to go on procession for one
day. Five to eight men over the age of 60 are selected to be the head persons
(touren) 头人. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–14, depending on the results of divination, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 or Dutian yuanshuai
都天元帅 of Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 goes on procession, and Jin jiangjun
金将军and Lin dutong 林都统 go along with the procession as guards. Each
jiatou 甲头 take turns to welcome the procession. The procession route is
determined by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄. It is hosted by the Toucuo
and Weicuo 头尾厝. Funds are collected on a per household basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 is the center of
organization for the following events:
4/19: The celebration of the Sihai longwang 四海龙王 (Dragon Kings of the
Four Seas) is held.
8/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人 is held (in this case, the day of consecration 开光日 is used
as the birthday).
These rites are organized by the two main village temples simultaneously.
Personal donations are used to sponsor marionette plays. Each household is
responsible for their own worshipping offerings.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

981

Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿:
3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held.
3/13: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held.
3/15: The celebration of Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅诞 is held.
4/13: The celebration of Wen yuanshuai 温元帅诞 is held.
7/7: The celebration of Kang yuanshuai 康元帅诞 is held.
10/10: The celebration of Taiyi jinxiangu 太乙金仙姑 is held.
All of these celebrations are hosted by the Tanban 坛班 of the temple. The
Tanban also set up the offering altars. Households can come to worship
freely.
Various communities of the Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 host the following god’s
birthdays:
1/4: The welcoming of the gods 接神 is hosted by the Li 李 of Qianmianwei 前面尾.
1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Li李
of Tianzhongyang 田中央.
3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the Li 李 of
Sifangtou 四房头.
4/13: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by a
Shenminghui 神明会 (a god association).
7/7: The celebration of Kang yuanshuai 康元帅诞 is organized by the
Zhou 周, Tang 汤, and You 游, taking turns annually.
9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the
Li 李 of Sifangtou 四房头.
10/10: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is organized by the Li 李
of Houcuofang 后厝房.
The birthday celebrations of each jia have opera performed for four to five
days. Funds are collected on a per household basis.
5. Ritual Groups Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿 has a stele dedicated to the ancient
altars of the (spirit mediums) of the past. There are currently thirty-eight
Tanban 坛班 altar associates. Guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has
occurred three times. Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 has tanban 坛班 spell booklets
(zhouce) 咒册 and god invoking booklets (hushence) 呼神册.
V680

Ding dun 顶墩

1. Village settlement Dingdun was originally known as Chendun 陈墩,
and belongs to the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星行政村. There are
currently more than 700 people in the village. It is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

982

part four

2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the
Weng 翁. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Zhang
张. The Lin have the most people while the Weng are second most numerous. The Chen has approximately eighty people while the Li and the Zhang
only have a few households.
3. Village temples 1) Guanghuigong 广惠宫 contains the Jifushê 集福社:
The original year of construction is unknown. The main god worshipped
is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Other gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王
(belonging to the Weng 翁), Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 (belonging to the
Lin 林), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Jialuo
dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘
公元帅, Anshan shengwang 安善圣王, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Lingya
jiangjun 灵牙将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The temple preserves
a stele composed in Tongzhi 6 (1867) entitled 重修广惠宫碑记 (Stele recording the repairs to the Temple of Vast Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials,
1995:327, No. 291).
2) Kaixingtang 开兴堂: The original year of construction is unknown. This
temple is considered as a dong 洞, a spirit medium cavern built around the
activities of Tanban 坛班 spirit mediums. The main god worshipped is Qitian
dasheng 齐天大圣. Other gods include Mazu 妈祖, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄
坛元帅, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Li daren 李大人, Guanyin dashi 观
音大士, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Wen yuanshuai 温元
帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元
帅, Wenwu siguan dadi 文武四官大帝, Shengcai tongzi 生财童子, Xianbao
longnü 献宝龙女.
3) Zhonghetang 中和堂 is dedicated to the worship of Sanyijiaozhu (Lin
Zhao’en 林兆恩) 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 180 initiates.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君,
Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of Guanghuigong 广惠宫 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Lin daren 林大人 of
Kaixingtang 开兴堂 go on procession. Sixteen head persons (Touren) 头人
are selected to be the hosts. Funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held.
5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the
Weng 翁.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held.
9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the
Lin 林.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

983

The birthday celebrations some of the gods of Guanghuigong 广惠宫 are
organized by the entire village all together. These are hosted by the head
persons, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Other god’s are celebrated by specific surname groups. The birthday celebrations of the gods of
the Kaixingtang 开兴堂 are sponsored by the Tanban 坛班 altar associates.
5. Ritual Groups
Guanghuigong 广惠宫 and Kaixingtang 开兴堂 each has its different Tanban 坛班. Guanghuigong has twenty-seven Tanban altar associates, and
Guanjie 关戒 has occurred twice. Kaixingtang has thirty Tanban alter associates. Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is the main deity of the altar (zhu tan) 主坛.
Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Baima xianggong 白马相公 and Li daren 李
大人 can also descend, and each has its own Shentong 神童 spirit medium.
Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times. There is also a Three in One temple
called the Zhonghetang 中和堂 with 180 adherents.
V681 Xiadun 下墩
1. Village settlement Xiadun 下墩 is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance
of Goushang 沟上七境, and also belongs to the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星行政村. There are currently approximately 300 people in the village, which is divided into three jia 甲: Shangmian 上面, Xiacuo 下厝 and
Wumen 乌门. The main livelihoods are agriculture and fishery. There are
more than 130 Overseas Chinese living abroad.
2. Surname groups All the residents are of the Chen 陈 surname group. It
is said that the Chen emigrated from Dingdun 顶墩 during the Ming Dynasty.
The Chen lineage was originally divided into four branches, but now two of
them have merged together, so there are only three branches: Wumen 乌门,
Xiacuo 下厝, and Shangmian 上面. The earliest ancestral tomb dates back to
Qing Qianlong 12 (1747), but there is no combined worship at the tombs for
the entire clan. Each branch conducts its own worshipping of its ancestors.
There are no ancestral halls and no lineage genealogies.
3. Village temples 1) Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 contains the Jifushê 集福社.
The temple branched out from a temple in Dingdun 顶墩. The original
construction was during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620). The temple
was renovated in Qing Tongzhi 9 (1870) and in 1985. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other secondary gods include Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai
田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君,
Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Taiyi xiangu 太乙
仙姑, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康
元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Wu jiangjun 吴将军,
Wang jiangjun 王将军, Leigong leimu 雷公雷母, Fengbo yushi 风伯雨师,
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

984

part four

Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Huang cang 黄苍, Bai cang
白苍, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Yima dashen 姨妈大神, Lufu dashen 鲁府
大神, Tiankui 天魁, Di kui 地魁, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and
Luban xianshi 鲁班仙师.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅,
Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 go on procession for one day. Six head persons (touren) 头人 are selected by means
of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄, and the entire village takes turns putting forth
candidates. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. There are also transfers
from Overseas Chinese.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25 and 9/25: The celebrations of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are organized
by Xiacuofang 下厝房.
3/3:
The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Baima
yuanshuai 白马元帅 is organized by Shangmianfang 上面房.
4/7 and 8/7:
The celebrations of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are organized by Wumenfang 乌门房.
4/14:
The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by Xiacuofang 下厝房.
4/18:
The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized
by Xiacuofang 下厝房.
6/19:
The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by
the entire village as a whole.
7/23:
The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Shangmianfang 上面房;
10/11:
The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is organized by
the entire village as a whole.
Opera is performed for three days for all the birthday celebrations of the
gods. There are either transfers from Overseas Chinese or funds are collected
on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 has more than ten Shentong 神
童 spirit mediums who are selected from teens under sixteen from the three
jia 甲 neighborhoods. Guanjie 关戒 (training sessions) has occurred three
times.
V682

Wudun 吴墩

1. Village settlement Wudun is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Goushang 沟上七境 and also belongs to the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星行政村. The current population is over 600. It is not divided into
neighborhoods. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

985

2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Yang 杨, the Chen
陈, and the Huang 黄. The Wu 吴 have the most people, and are subdivided
into nine zhu 九柱 (branches 房). Their origin is unknown. The Chen 陈
originally lived in Xiadun 下墩. It is said that the Chen moved here during
the late Ming Dynasty in order to avoid the Japanese pirates. Information
concerning the Yang 杨 and the Huang 黄 is unavailable.
3. Village temples 1) Yinghuigong 英惠宫 is part of the Wushanjing
吴山境 and contains the Nananshê 南安社: The date of construction is
unknown. The main god worshipped is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Other gods
include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wugong
dutong 吴公都统, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大
圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Chen yuanshuai 陈
元帅, Zheng yuanshuai 郑元帅, Qiu yuanshuai 邱元帅, Liu yuanshuai 刘元
帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Zunzhu mingwang
尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
2) Lingyingtang 灵应堂: The date of construction is unknown. It is said that
this temple is the oldest temple of the village. The divinatory poetry (Chouqian) 抽签 and planchette writing (Fuji) 扶乩 of this temple are said to be
the most efficacious. The main god worshipped is Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛
元帅. Other gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一
教主, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Taiyi He xiangu
太乙何仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣
君, Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人, Yangshi xiangu 杨氏仙姑, Daye erye 大爷
二爷, and Wufu zhongjun 吴府中军.
3) Lingxiandian 灵显殿 is also called Beidougong 北头宫, and branched off
from Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 of Xiadun 下墩, but it is not known when this
occurred. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other
gods include Shengfu shengmu 圣父圣母, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯,
Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Liu yuanshuai 刘元帅, Tiangong
yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军,
and Shêgong Shêma 社公社妈.
4) Yanxingtang 延福堂 is inside the Lingxiandian 灵显殿: Main gods:
Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods: Sima
shengwang 司马圣王 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and
Wugong dutong 吴公都统 of Yinghuigong 英惠宫 and Liugong yuanshuai
刘元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 of Lingxiandian 灵显殿 go on procession for one day. The entire village organizes the event together.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/15: The birthday celebration of Cijizhenjun 慈济真君 is held.
4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘元帅 is held.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

986

part four

7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held.
All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two or three days on each occasion.
5. Ritual Groups The Yinghuigong 英惠宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association, and has held guanjie 关戒 training sessions.
V683

Youdun 游墩

1. Village settlement Youdun is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Goushang 沟上七境. It is part of the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星
行政村. There are currently approximately 800 people in the village. Youdun is divided into six jia 甲: Chengnei 埕内, Chengwai 埕外, Goucen
沟岑, Beitou 北头, Zhangcuo 张厝, and Lincuo 林厝. The main livelihoods
are agriculture and commerce.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yang 杨, Zhang 张, and Lin 林.
The Yang surname group has the most people, at approximately 500 people,
and it is divided into four branches: Chengnei 埕内 has 114 people, Chengwai 埕外 has 140 people, Goucen 沟岑 has 208 people, and Beitou 北头 has
38 people. The Zhang has 161 people while the Lin has 70 people. The Yang
have three zutang 祖堂 (ancestral homes) and the Lin have one.
3. Village temples 1) Jiletang 极乐堂. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Jialuo
dasheng 伽罗大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公
圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng
齐天大圣, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Wenwu
panguan 文武判官, Jin sheren 金舍人, Lin taiwei 林太尉.
2) Jifushê 集福社 branched off from the Jifushê of Dingdun 顶墩. The gods
worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
3) Yufengmiao 毓凤庙: The date of construction is unknown. The temple
belongs to the Yang 杨 surname group. The gods worshipped are Yanggong
taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Wude zhongjun 武德中军 and
Liumei tongzi 柳梅童子.
4) Xinglongtan 兴龙坛 is as a dong 洞 spirit medium cavern-temple. The
gods worshipped are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母
(Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人), Yima dashen 姨妈大神 (Yayi zunniang 亚姨
尊娘), Huang sheren 黄舍人, and Bai sheren 白舍人.
5) Fuyitang 福义堂 is dedicated to the worship of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.
Other gods worshipped are Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓
祖真人.
6) Zongxuntang 宗顺堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Additional gods worshipped are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Zhuozu zhenren
卓祖真人.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

987

7) Fuxingtang 福星堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the
shê altar are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao.
On 1/21, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and
Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of Jiletang 极乐堂 go on procession for one day.
The entire village organizes the event together.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is co-organized by the
Yang 杨 of Chengnei 埕内 and Chengwai 埕外.
3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole.
3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the Yang 杨
of Goucen 沟岑.
4/13: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by Lincuo 林厝.
The birthday celebration of Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军 is organized by the
Yang 杨 of Beitou 北头.
4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is co-organized by the
Yang 杨 of each jia 甲.
6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is co-organized by the
Yang 杨 of Chengnei 埕内 and Chengwai 埕外.
7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by the village as
a whole.
7/13: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by
Zhangcuo 张厝.
9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is co-organized by the
Yang 杨 of Chengnei 埕内 and Chengwai 埕外.
Funds are collected on a per capita basis from the organizing community.
Opera is performed for several days on each god’s birthday.
5. Ritual Groups The Xinglongtan 兴龙坛 originally had spirit mediums,
but has not held guanjie training sessions.
A150 Shangfang qijing (Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance) 上方七境
The Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Middle Main
Channel of the Jiuliyang Irrigation system 九里洋. This area was part of the
Shiting xincuopu 石庭新厝铺 (policing/defense unit) of Yongfengli 永丰里
sub-canton. Currently the population of this area is over 15,000 people. In
the Ming, the villages of Shangfang 上方, Shanglin 上林, Xialiu 下刘 and
Caidun 蔡墩 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shiting 石庭,
Dongshi 东施, Xishi 西施, Pucheng 埔埕, Xiliu 西刘, Dongcai 东蔡, Xicai
西蔡 and Jiewai 界外 separated off. Currently, Shiting village has developed
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance

part four

A150

988

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

989

a relatively independent temple ritual system, called the 石庭四甲 (the four
jia (ritual associations) of Shiting). Meanwhile, Shangfang village has become
a subordinate neighborhood of the greater Shiting village.
Originally the Shangfanggong 上方宫, with its Fuxing dongshê 福兴东
社, was the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance, and on set dates it
would organize joint processions and hold god’s the birthday celebrations,
along with guanjie training sessions for spirit mediums. The main gods of
the temple were Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Zunshu mingwang 尊主明王
and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods included Huguo Wanglangjun
护国王郎君, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dashen 齐天大圣, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙
妃, Luotian dajiang 罗天大将, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong
shenghou 金公圣侯. In the Republican period, the Shangfang sevenfold
ritual alliance repaired the Shangfang temple and the Fuxing dongshê, and
carried out collective processions and rituals, and organized spirit medium
training sessions (guanjie 关戒). In 2003, when the Huang 黄 lineage of Shiting rebuilt the Jiulidong 九鲤洞 temple, the Shangfanggong temple and the
Fuxing dongshê were dismantled, and all their gods were transferred to the
Jiulidong temple.
As mentioned above, because Shangfang village was inhabited by members of the Huang 黄 lineage of Shiting 石庭, the village transformed into the
Houtingjia 后亭甲 (neighborhood) of Shidong 石东 village, and the Shangfanggong 上方宫 was absorbed into the Jiulidong 九鲤洞九鲤洞 (Nine
Carp Cavern-temple). Currently, the Huang lineage of Shiting has evolved
a relatively independent ritual system, known as the Shiting sijia 石庭四甲
(Four neighborhoods of Shiting). All that is left of the Shangfang sevenfold
ritual alliance are the four villages of Shanglin 上林, Dongshi 东施 (Xishi
西施), Pucheng 埔埕, and Xiliu 西刘. These four villages join with the villages of Dongcai 东蔡 and Jiexia 界下, which were originally part of the
Fengyangpu 丰洋铺 of Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton, in the processions of
the Dongyueguan zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 of Jiangkou.
V684 Shanglin 上林
1. Village settlement Shanglin belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. The current population is approximately 500 people. The
village is not divided up into neighborhoods. The main livelihoods of the
inhabitants are agriculture and commerce. There are some family dependents of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Fang 方, the Qiu
邱, the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, and the Weng 翁. The Huang emigrated from
Shiting 石庭. The origins of the other surname groups are unknown.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

990

part four

3. Village temples 1) Shanglingong 上林宫 contains the Shanglin shushê
上林书社. The left hand side of the temple is the Mingwangdian 明王殿,
the right hand side is the Yuanshuaifu 元帅府. The date of construction is
unknown. The temple was renovated in Qing Xianfeng 3 (1853). The main
gods are is Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu
furen 后土夫人. The other gods worshipped in the temple are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and
Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神.
2) Zhiyuantang 志元堂 belongs to the Three in One 三一教. The temple was
originally called the Shanglinting 上林亭. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu (Lin
Zhao’en 林兆恩) 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天
上帝, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝, Ducha Xu daren 都察徐大人 Jianlei yushi
(Zhang Shenggong) 监雷御史, Tianqian shengmu (Chen Jinggu) 天前圣
母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianshang shengmu
(Mazu) 天上圣母, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷金普化天尊, Ancha Li daren
按察李大人, Anyuan Jiang daren 按院江大人, Beidou zhongtian dadi 北
斗中天大帝, Zhengyi lingguan dadi 正一灵官大帝, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗
大圣, Senluo tianzi 森罗天子, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康
元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Xietian dadi 协天大
帝, Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Gong jiangjun 龚将军, Tiankui 天魁,
Dikui 地魁, Jinyin ertongzi 金银二童子, Cangzhongjun 仓中君, Ashê 阿
舍, Hutang daye 护堂大爷, Erye 二爷, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Tiankui
lingguan 天魁灵官, Xunsi Chun daren 巡司春大人, Baihe tongzi 白鹤童子,
Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo longtian 韦陀龙天.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods are invited to each
household to xingdao 行道. In the middle of the month, a procession is
held on a day determined by divination. Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Sima
shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Liugong yuanshuai
刘公元帅 go on procession. The procession and the festival are organized
all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The birthday celebration is held on for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.
4/18: The celebration is held for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.
5/13: The celebration is held for Sima shengwang 司马圣王.
These events are organized by the headsmen selected for the year, and contributions are gathered on a per capita basis, without dividing up into different
neighborhoods.
5. Ritual Groups Every year, there are four head persons in charge of
the Yuanxiao processions and the god’s the birthday celebrations, and these
positions rotate among the households.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

991

The Shanglingong 上林宫 has already held guanjie spirit medium trainings three times. There are currently 40 members of the Tanban 坛班 (altar
association).
V685

Dongshi 东施

1. Village settlement Dongshi was originally divided into two villages
called Dongshi 东施 and Xishi 西施, and they constituted two units of the
seven ritual territories of Shangfang 上方七境. Later the two villages merged
together, and the resulting mix was called Dongshi. Dongshi belongs to the
Donglou Administrative Village 东楼行政村. The current population is
approximately 600 people. The village is not divided up into neighborhoods.
The main livelihood of the inhabitants is agriculture.
2. Surname groups Dongshi has three surname groups: the Chen 陈,
the Zheng 郑, and the Liu 刘. The surname groups have similar population
sizes. Their origins and branches are unknown. It is said that there were ten
gongting 公厅 ancestral houses in the village, but that now mixed surnames
live in them. On Yuanxiao, however, people go back to their original ancestral house to celebrate and worship.
3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 is part of Dongshi jing 东施境,
and contains the Qixingshê 齐兴社: The date of construction is unknown.
The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人,
and Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,
Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅.
2) Sanxiaodian 三霄殿 is part of Linjiangjing 临江境 and contains the
Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was built in Qing Qianlong 1 (1736), and
demolished in 1966. For some time the gods of the temple took refuge in
the Beijidian 北极殿, but in 1981 the temple was rebuilt. The main gods
worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and
Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods are Zixiao niangniang 紫宵
娘娘, Bixiao niangniang 碧宵娘娘, Yunxiao niangniang 云宵娘娘, Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, and Chen zhongjun
陈中军.
3) Dongfumiao 东福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, each surname group invites
the gods to its gongting 公厅 ancestral house. After Yuanxiao, on a day
determined by divination, all the gods are brought back to the temple. On
the same night, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Daochang
Daoist rite, and the Tanban altar associates xingnuo 行傩 conduct exorcistic
dances and fenglu 封路 seal the crossroads against demonic forces.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

992

part four

2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 is organized by the Zheng 郑.
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized
by the entire village all together, and contributions are made according
to households. All the other gods have different surname groups organizing their birthday celebrations.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the
Zheng 郑.
9/9: The celebration for Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Chen zhongjun
陈中军 is organized by the Chen 陈.
The celebration of Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 is organized by the Liu 刘.
5. Ritual Groups The village currently has 33 Tanban members. They
adhere to the Lushan dafayuan 闾山大法院, and they have already gone
through numerous guanjie spirit medium trainings. Dutian yuanshuai 都天
元帅, Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, and Chen zhongjun
陈中军 all have possessed spirit mediums Shentong 神童.
V686

Pucheng 埔埕

1. Village settlement Pucheng is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Shangfang 上方七境. The village belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东楼行政村. The current population is approximately 1300 people. The
village is divided into two neighborhoods: the upper Shang Pucheng 上埔埕
and the lower Xia Pucheng 下埔埕. The main livelihood of the inhabitants
is agriculture.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, the Fang 方, the Chen
陈, and the Cai 蔡. The Liu have approximately 900 people, and are divided
into two lineage segments: the upper and the lower Pucheng segments 上, 下
埔埕二族. The lower Pucheng segment is further divided into two branches
房. The Cai has approximately 200 people. The Fang and the Chen have less
people. Their origins and branches are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Puchengjing Nananmiao (Fuxingshê) 浦城境南
安庙, 福兴社: The side halls of the temple complex are separate temples,
namely the 2) Liangjigong 两姬宫 3) Mingwangdian 明王殿: The year of
construction is unknown. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Other
gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Yinzhu
xiangu 银主仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
4) Dongandian 东安殿 is a spirit-medium dong (洞 cavern temple) in
Shangpucheng 上埔埕. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Other gods
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

993

worshipped include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝,
Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天
大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu
dashen 鲁府大神, Shiling daren 十灵大人, Sanling daren 三灵大人, Tianhuo yuanshuai 天火元帅, Yima daren 姨妈大人, Jiang daren 江大人, Xu
daren 徐大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Ma daren 马大人, Zhou jiangjun 周将
军, and Hou jiangjun 侯将军.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 each surname group invites
gods back to their homes. Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is invited by the Liu
of Weifang 尾房刘; Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jialuo dasheng 迦
罗大圣 are invited by miscellaneous surnames in the Jiucuo neighborhood
旧厝; Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited by the Cai 蔡; Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is invited by the Chen 陈 and the Liu 刘; Liugong yuanshuai
刘公元帅 is invited by the first and the second branches of the Liu lineage
刘姓长二房.
Between 1/12 and 1/26, on a day determined by divination, these gods are
taken around the boundaries of the village on a procession for a day. This is
organized all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The following the birthday celebrations
are organized by the village as a whole, without division by neighborhoods:
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held.
5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Jialuo dasheng 迦罗
大圣 is held.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held.
The celebrations of the gods of Dongandian 东安殿 are organized by Shangpucheng 上埔埕 on its own.
5. Ritual Groups Nananmiao 南安庙 has already held a Guanjie spirit
medium training once. Currently, there are more than 30 members of the
Tanban. Dongandian 东安殿 has held Guanjie twice, in 1984 and 1992. There
are more than 40 members of the Tanban, of which some of the Shentong 神
童 spirit mediums also participate in the Tanban of Nananmiao.
V687 Xiliu 西刘
1. Village settlement Xiliu was originally known as Qianliu 前刘, when
the village was first settled in the Qianlong period (1736–1795). It is an independent administrative village. The current population is over 1000 people.
The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Shêbian 社边, Dingjiucuo
顶旧厝, and Wuzhangcuo 五张厝. The main livelihood of the inhabitants is
agriculture. There are some family dependents of overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups All the inhabitants of the village are of the Liu 刘 surname group. It is said that the inhabitants used to live in Jiucuojiao 旧厝
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

994

part four

角 of Shiting 石庭. They moved to this village because they were bullied by
the Huang lineage. There is a Liu ancestral hall. Those Liu that remained in
Shiting 石庭 changed their last names to Huang 黄.
3. Village temples 1) Xinlinggong of Shiting shengjing 石庭圣境新灵
宫 contains the Fuxingxishê 福兴西社, and was built in Qing Xianfeng 8
(1858). The main gods are Zhengshun shengwang 正顺圣王, Zunshu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. In addition there are the following gods: Jiutianfumo Liu yuanshuai 九天伏魔刘元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐
天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong
shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元
帅, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Xiehui erfei 协惠二妃 (the younger sister
of Kang Gong 康公之妹).
2) Huiyuantang 惠远堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
3) Yuanmingtang 圆明堂 was built in Qing Qianlong 4 (1739) and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods are invited to each
household to xingdao 行道 carry out the Dao. Between 1/16 and 1/20, on
a day decided by divination, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is carried on a
procession for a day.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The following celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, unless otherwise indicated:
2/2:
The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人 is organized by Shêbian 社边.
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Shangjiucuo 上旧厝.
4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
8/14: The celebration of Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅.
10/17: The celebrations of Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯 are organized by Wuzhangcuo 五张厝.
11/27: The celebration of Zhengshun shengwang 正顺圣王
Each neighborhood performs lots of opera on the birthday celebrations of
the gods, which is paid for either by donations from Overseas Chinese, or
on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups Guanjie spirit medium training has already taken place
six times. There are now over 60 members of the Tanban altar association.
Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Qitian dasheng
齐天大圣, and Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 all descend to possess spirit
mediums.
V688 Dongcai 东蔡

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

995

1. Village settlement Dongcai was formerly named Caidun 蔡墩, and was
made up of the two villages of Dongcai 东蔡 and Xicai 西蔡, which later
merged into one. Dongcai belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东
楼行政村. There are currently close to 1000 people in the village, and they
are divided into three neighborhoods: Zhuolang 卓廊, Houcuo 后厝, and
Xiamian 下面. The main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, the Wu 吴, and the
Huang 黄. The Wu are divided into three branches: the Wu 吴 of Zhuolang
卓廊 have more than 200 people, the Wu of Xiamian下面 have 147 people;
and the Wu 吴 of Houcuo 后厝 have more than 300 people. There was originally an ancestral hall, but it has been destroyed. The Cai have approximately
200 people while the Huang have approximately 150 people.
3. Village temples 1) Zixiatang 紫霞堂 is part of Fengtaijing 丰泰境 and
contains the Zhenjiangshê 振江社. Originally constructed in the Qing Kangxi
era (1662–1722), this temple was reconstructed in Qianlong 56 (1791). The
main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include
Liuzu zunfo 六祖尊佛, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhusheng dadi 注生大
帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄
坛元帅, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liu shenghou 柳
圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Yinglie miaojiangjun 英烈妙将军, Lingguan
dadi 灵官大帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The temple preserves
a stele composed in Qianlong 56 (1791) entitled 重建紫霞堂立碑序 (Preface on a stele commemorating the reconstruction of the Purple Mist shrine)
(Epigraphical Materials, 1995:259, No. 222).
2) Dongyueguan 东岳观 was built in 1991, when it divided incense from
the Jiangkou Dongyueguan 江口东岳观. This temple preserves the Jiangkou
Dongyueguan placards dating to the Wanli period (1573–1620) and Qing
Qianlong periods (1736–1795). The main god worshipped in Dongyue
zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝.
3) Shunzhong shuyuan 顺中书院, was built in the early Republican period
and is dedicated to the worship of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, founder of the
Three in One. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 271 initiates.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 each neighborhood god 角头神
is invited to descend from its perch in the temple下张 and visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). These gods are invited to return
to the temple on 1/16, and in the process to go on a procession around the
spiritual boundaries of the village (raojing 绕境). The following gods take
part in the procession: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元
帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong sheng-

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

996

part four

jun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛
元帅. The five jia 甲 take turns to be the host. On 2/12, Dongyue zhusheng
dadi 东岳注生 is carried out on a procession 出郊巡游.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 on 3/3 is organized by the entire village altogether. Opera is performed for several
days, and funds are collected on a per household basis.
5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by
the Wu 吴 of Zhuokuo 卓廓.
7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is organized by the Wu 吴 of Xiamian 下面.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Cai 蔡.
The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by
the Huang 黄.
The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by the
Wu 吴 of Houcuo 后厝.
On these birthday celebrations, each jia mostly screen movies. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is usually not performed.
5. Ritual Groups Each year each jia select four head persons (touren)
头人. Organization of the Yuanxiao celebrations is rotated between the five
jia. Funds are collected on a per capita basis.
V689

Jiexia 界下

1. Village settlement Jiexia belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东楼行政村. The village settlement began during the Qing Qianlong
reign (1736–1795). A stele inscribed “fengzhi qianyi bianjie” “奉旨迁移边
界” is extent, an official indicator of the boundary of the coastal evacuation
from the early years of Kangxi reign. There are currently approximately 300
people in the village, and more than 600 living away outside the village. The
main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups All the residents are of the Zhang 张 surname group,
which is divided into four branches. There is no ancestral hall and no common worshipping activities.
3. Village temples 1) Beichentang 北辰堂 contains the Lianjiangshê 连
江社, and was built in Tongzhi 1 (1862), after it had branched off from the
Zixiatang 紫霞堂 of Dongcai 东蔡. This temple still participates in related
rituals at the Zixiatang. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄
天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other
gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian
dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xugong taiwei 徐公太
尉, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

997

yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Zhengyi Wang lingguan 正一王灵官, Tiankui dikui 天魁地魁, Fengshen yubo 风神雨伯, and
Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, a procession is first held in the
village for one day. The next day, Jiexia participates in the procession of the
Zixiatang 紫霞堂 of Dongcai 东蔡. These activities are organized by the village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated with several
days of opera. Funds are collected on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There are eighteen members of the Tanban 坛班. Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times.
A151 Shiting sijia (Shiting four jia ritual alliance) 石庭四甲
Shiting 石庭
Shiting is located between the upper and the central main channel of the
Nanan Weir ( Jiuliyang) irrigation system 南安陂上沟和中沟. This area
was part of the Shiting Xincuopu 石庭新厝铺 and Tiezao pu 铁灶 (police/
defense unit) of the Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton. During the Qing, the
villages of Tingli 庭里, Shangfang 上方 and Dongteizao 东铁灶 were settled.
Shiting is an elongated village which is managed by both the Shidong 石
东 and the Shixi 石西 Administrative Villages. The current population is
over 10000 people, and its population of Overseas Chinese living abroad is
over 20, 000. The vast majority of the people are of the Huang 黄 surname
group. There used to be the Liu 刘 and the Fang 方, but these surnames no
longer exist because they either moved away or changed their surnames to
Huang. The Huang came from Huangxiang 黄巷 in Hanjiang 涵江 during
the Yuan Dynasty. The fifth generation marked the start of the division into
three branches. There is an ancestral hall which was built during the Ming
Dynasty and renovated in 1987. Currently, Shiting village is divided into
Damenjia 大门甲, Zhonghuajia 中华甲, Houcuojia 后厝甲, and Houtingjia
后亭甲. The following villages are part of Damenjia 大门甲: Sanzhangcuo
三张厝, Zhongyangcuo 中央厝, Qiaotouwai 桥头外, Tianzhongyang 田中
央, Dingxipo 顶西坡, Xiaxipo 下西坡, Bangui 半圭, and Houcheng 后埕.
The following villages are part of Zhonghuajia 中华甲: Dingjiucuo 顶旧厝,
Xiajiucuo下旧厝, Wudunyang 吴墩洋, Xiaogouwei 小沟尾, Qigancuo 旗杆
厝. The following villages are part of Houcuojia 后厝甲: Zhaili 寨里 and
Yuanyangcuo 鸳鸯厝. The following villages are part of Houtingjia 后亭甲:
Houting 后亭 and Tiezao 铁灶.
The Shitinggong 石庭宫 and its Fuxingshê 福兴社, located in Shixi 石
西 village Xiajiucuo 下旧厝, is the overall main temple of the four jia 甲 of
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

Shiling four jia ritual alliance

part four

A151

998

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

999

Shiting. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped
are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Houtian
dizi 昊天帝子, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯,
Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Gongying tongzi 供应
童子 and Fenghuo erlang 风火二郎. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival
each Jia in rotation invites the temple incense burners to xingdao 行道 (visit
each household to carry forth the Dao). On 6/1, the four Jia come together to
celebrate the birthday of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙
将军. Other god’s birthdays are celebrated separately within each Jia neighborhood. Each time an intercalary lunar fourth month occurs, the Haotian
dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) is taken on a procession to
each Jia ritual association. The Shitinggong has a Temple Management Committee and an Overseas Chinese Development Committee. The temple has a
Tanban (spirit medium association) with a membership of over fifty people,
and it has held many guanjie spirit medium training sessions.
In the feuding banner alliances of the end of Qing, Shiting was part of the
white banner alliance.
V690

Houting 后亭

1. Village settlement Houting village belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村, and was originally called Shangfang 上方. The
population is over 1000, and the vast majority are dependent Overseas Chinese families.
2. Surname groups Houting is a single surname village, with all the inhabitants surnamed Huang 黄. There were originally the Fang 方 and the Wu
吴, but both surname groups have either emigrated or changed their surname to Huang 黄.
3. Village temples 1) Shangfanggong 上方宫 contains the Fuxing dongshê 福兴东社. This was originally the main temple of the Shiting sevenfold
ritual alliance. Its date of construction is unknown, but it was restored in
1914. In 2003, it was torn down and absorbed into the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. The
main gods worshipped are Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang
尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Huguo langjun
护国郎君, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Oushi
xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Luotian dajiang 罗天大将, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin
shenghou 金圣侯.
2) Jiulidong 九鲤洞 contains the Jiuli shushê 九鲤书社: It was originally
constructed in 1916. Originally it was named the Xianshenglou 仙圣楼. The
temple was rebuilt in 2002 and renamed the Fu Pu Xian Jiulidong Zongzhen
(The Chief Temple of the Nine Carp Cavern of Fuqing, Putian, and Xianyou)
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1000

part four

福莆仙九鲤洞总镇. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Heshi
jiuxianweng 何氏九仙翁, Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Shiyuan Lu xianzhang
士元卢仙长, Wenhui xianshi 文晖仙师, Chengguang Wang xianshi 成光
王仙师, Shande Chen zhangzhe 善德陈长者, Huatuo daxian 华佗大仙,
Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai
田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tongtian
shenghou 通天圣候, Huguo Wang langjun 护国王郎君, Liugong yuanshuai
刘公元帅, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯.
3) Wenyuandian 文元殿: This temple is run by the Tanban of Houting Jia.
The original date of construction is unknown. The temple was rebuilt in
2006. The main gods worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods worshipped include Zhengyi Wang lingguan 正一王灵官, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Beidou zhongtian
dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Buyuan dashen 部院
大神, Zhonglie Tian yuanshuai 忠烈田元帅, and Weiwu Jin liezhongjun
威武金烈中军.
4) Shunxingtang 顺兴堂 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝, Taishang laojun 太上老君, Wangmu niangniang 王母
娘娘, Zhanngong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, and Chen
Jinggu 陈靖姑. The Jade Emperor 玉皇 and the South and North Pole Stars
南北斗 are offered opera on 1/5, and 3/28. On 5/16 the temple celebrates
天地生金. On 7/23 and 8/14 the feast of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is
celebrated.
5) Gutingtang 古厅堂 belongs to the Houtingjia Xiadoufang 后亭甲下斗
房. The main god worshipped in Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary
gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓,
Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Dutian
yuanshuai 都天元帅. On 9/19 opera is performed.
6) Xinxingtang 新兴堂 is dedicated to the worship of Fude zhengshen 福德
正神. The Tudigong 土地公 is offered opera on 6/6.
7) Julutang Buddhist hall 觉路堂 was built during the Republican period
(PTZJZCG, 1992:210).
8) Ciyunan Buddhist nunnery 慈云庵 was built in 1928.
9) Helinsi Buddhist temple 鹤林寺 was built in Tongzhi 12 (1873) (PTZJZCG,
1992:210). This temple preserves a stele composed in Tongzhi 13 (1868) entitled 鹤林寺题捐碑 (Stele listing the names of the contributors of money to
the Crane Forest Monastery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:330, No. 294).
10) Helinan Buddhist nunnery 鹤林庵 was built in 1979 (PTZJZCG, 1992:
210).

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1001

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the temple incense burner is
taken through the roadways to each household.

Birthday celebrations of the gods
1/5: The birthdays of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君,
and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 are celebrated.
3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated.
3/9: The birthday of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is celebrated.
3/16: The birthday of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is celebrated.
3/28: The birthday of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is celebrated by the Shunxingtang 顺兴堂.
5/5: The birthday of Wang lingguan 王灵官 is celebrated by the Wenyuandian 文元殿.
5/5: The birthday of Lu xianzhang 卢仙长 is celebrated.
6/6: The birthday of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is celebrated by the entire
village all together.
9/9: The feast day of the Heshi Nine Immortals 何氏九仙 is celebrated by
the Jiulidong 九鲤洞.
On each god’s birthday, opera is performed for two to three days. Funds are
contributed on a per capita basis, or through contributions from the Tanban
or from Overseas Chinese.
5. Ritual Groups At the Jiulidong 九鲤洞, guanjie 关戒 has occurred
three times since 1981. There are more than 110 spirit medium associates
Tanban 坛班 . Many of these mediums are dependent families of Overseas
Chinese in Singapore and Indonesia. At the Wenyuandi an 文元殿, guanjie
关戒 has occurred three times since 1980. There are over seventy members
of the Tanban. There is an Overseas Temple Management Committee.
V691

Wudunyang 吴墩洋

1. Village settlement Wudunyang is also known as Wuchunyang 吾春洋.
The village belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. The
population is approximately 500 people, but there are over 1000 Overseas
Chinese abroad.
2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, the Xu
许, and the Zhang 张, with the Huang in the majority. These Huang belong
to the Shitting Huang lineage from Zhonghuajia 石庭黄氏中华甲. They have
a lineage hall known as the Fuzhang zuci 富章祖祠, in which they worship
both their ancestors and Guanyin 观音.
3. Village temples 1) Fuxingtang 福星堂 was recently constructed. The
main god worshipped is the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1002

part four

Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai
玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Haotian dizi (Tiangong yuanshuai
田公元帅) 昊天帝子, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Lu Shiyuan xianzhang
卢士元仙长, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhou zhenren 卓真人, Jin chiling 金齿
龄, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Dongxi shizhe 东西使者, Nandou xingjun 南
斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府
夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Yanluo tianzi 阎罗天子, Niutou Mamian 牛头
马面, and Qinming ducha shenghou Xu daren 钦命都察圣侯徐大人.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the village participates in the
Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong
石庭宫. The incense burners are taken process to each household.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
The following gods are celebrated on the indicated dates: 1/6 Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, 1/7 Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, 2/25 Qitian dasheng 齐天大
圣, 3/3 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, 3/15 Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, 4/7
Haotian dizi (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) 昊天帝子, 4/13 Jinchiling 金
齿龄, 5/2 Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, 5/5 Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, 6/6 Fude
zhengshen 福德正神, 6/12 Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, 7/15 Xu daren 徐大
人, 7/16 Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, 7/23 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, 8/18
Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, 12/16 Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Dongxi shizhe
东西使者. The god’s birthdays are organized by the village all together, and
usually involve several days of opera, but the dates of the performances are
flexible.
5. Ritual Groups Spirit mediums and temple representatives participate in
the Tanban (altar association) of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong
九鲤洞.
V692 Dingjiucuo 顶旧厝
1. Village settlement Dingjiucuo belongs to the Shidong Administrative
Village 石东行政村. The current village population is approximately 300
people, with over 500 Overseas Chinese living abroad.
2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the
Fang 方, with the Huang in the majority. The Huang belong to the Shiting
石庭 Huang 黄 lineage Zhonghuajia 中华甲. The Fang moved from Shangfang 上方 village.
3. Village temples 1) Jiulifendong 九鲤分洞 was built after the Cultural
Revolution. Originally the site was that of the Fang 方 ancestral home.
Because the gods of the Jiulidong were kept safe in the ancestral home, they
later refused to leave, and so the home was rebuilt as a branch temple. The
main gods worshipped are Zhaoling erdian zhenjun 昭灵二殿真君 and Shiyuan Lu xianzhang 士元卢仙长. Secondary gods include Xuanzan Zhang
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1003

yuanshuai 宣赞章元帅, Yuanhui Xie xiansh 元晖谢仙师, Chengguang
Wang xianzhang 城光王仙师, Shangyang Zhuo zhenren 上阳卓真人, Sima
Zhang shengwang 司马张圣王, Xuantan Zhao yuanshuai 玄坛赵元帅, Liu
Jin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Luotian dajiang 罗天大将, Qitian Sun dasheng 齐
天孙大圣, Tongtian Xin shenghou 通天辛圣侯, Huguo Wang langjun 护
国王郎君, Fazhu Ou xianfei 法主欧仙姑, Xunbu Zheng laoye 巡部郑老爷,
Han Wengong xianshi 韩文公仙师, Heshi jiuxianweng 何氏九仙翁, Chunyang Lü zhenren 纯阳吕真人, Shande Chen zhanglao 善德陈长老.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the village participates in the
Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong
石庭宫. The incense burners are taken to each household.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
The following gods are celebrated on the dates indicated: 5/5 Lu xianzhang
卢仙长, 6/10 Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, 8/23 Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). Each celebration involves opera performances
of two to three days. The celebrations are organized by the Tanban. The
remaining god’s birthdays are handled by the Tanban, which is divided into
4 groups to handle the organization of the offerings to the gods.
5. Ritual Groups Since 1987 there have been eight guanjie spirit medium
training sessions, and there are over 100 members of the Tanban. They
adhere to the Jinlunjiao 金轮教. The Altar master was originally based in
the Jiulidong 九鲤洞 in Shiting 石庭.
V693 Qigancuo 旗杆厝
1. Village settlement Qigancuo belongs to the Shidong Administrative
Village 石东行政村. Qigancuo village has a population of over 700 people.
2. Surname groups All the inhabitants share the Huang 黄 surname, and
belong to the Shiting Huang lineage Zhonghuajia 石庭黄氏中华. There is a
Huang lineage ancient home called the Xingqingtang 行庆堂.
3. Village temples 1) Tianyunting 天云亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi
观音大士, with Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰 as secondary gods.
2) Guji Chenghuangmiao 古迹城隍庙 was reconstructed in 2002. The
main god worshipped is the Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神. Secondary gods
are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
3) Tianbaodian 天宝殿 was rebuilt in 2006. It is dedicated to Tuota Li
tianwang 托塔李天王 and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the village participates in the
Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong
石庭宫. The incense burners are taken to each household. This is organized
by each year’s fushou 福首 (fortunate headsmen).
Birthday celebrations of the gods
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1004

part four

On 2/19, 6/19, and 9/19 the feast days of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 are celebrated . On 8/23 the birthday of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) is celebrated. On each occasion, opera is performed for two
days, and the fushou 福首 manage the event.
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium association of Shitinggong 石庭宫 and Jiulidong 九鲤洞.
V694 Xiaojiaowei 小郊尾
1. Village settlement Xiaojiaowei is also known as Jiucen 旧岑, and is part
of the Shidong administrative village 石东行政村.
2. Surname groups All the inhabitants share the Huang 黄 surname, and
belong to the Shiting Huang lineage Zhonghuajia 石庭黄氏中华甲.
3. Village temples 1) Guji Mingandian 古迹明安殿 is also considered a
spirit medium cavern-temple 洞. The Mingan Cavern-temple is said to have
been built in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1505). The cult was kept for a
long time inside a private home, where the ancient altar of the spirit mediums of the past was worshipped, and only recently was the temple rebuilt.
The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The secondary
gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊
王, Zhaolie shenghou 昭烈圣侯, Dangmo yuanshuai 荡魔元帅, Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周
仓, Miaolie zhongjun 妙烈中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Douma sheren
(Huang Cang) 痘麻舍人 (黄仓), Lingtong sheren (Bai Cang) 灵通舍人 (白
仓), Qingtian yujiang 清天玉将, Lingtong shenghou 灵通圣侯, Tongtian
shenghou 通天圣侯, Tanqian yuanshuai 坛前元帅, Jiucha buyuan 纠察部
院, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷.
2) Dongyou Mingandian 东游明安殿 divided off from the Guji Mingandian 古迹明安殿, and is also known as the Dongyoudong 东游洞. This temple
was rebuilt in 2000. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天大
帝. The secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen
鲁府大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Guangze
zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhaolie shenghou 昭烈圣侯, Dangmo yuanshuai 荡魔
元帅, Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping
关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Miaolie zhongjun 妙烈中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥
妙将, Douma sheren (Huang Cang) 痘麻舍人(黄仓), Lingtong sheren (Bai
Cang) 灵通舍人(白仓), Qingtian yujiang 清天玉将, Lingtong shenghou 灵
通圣侯, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Tanqian yuanshuai 坛前元帅, Jiucha
buyuan 纠察部院, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1005

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the village participates in the
Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong 石
庭宫. The incense burners are taken to each household. This is organized by
each year’s fushou 福首 (fortunate headsmen).
Birthday celebrations of the gods
The following gods are celebrated on the dates indicated: 2/8 Daye 大爷 and
Erye 二爷.
3/3: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
7/23: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君诞.
8/23: Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅).
Each celebration is marked by two days of opera, and the festivities are organized by the Tanban spirit medium association. All the other god’s birthdays
are celebrated by the spirit mediums who are divided into groups for this
purpose.
5. Ritual Groups Since 1984, the Guji Mingandian 古迹明安殿 has held
nine guanjie spirit medium training sessions and now has a Tanban membership of 120. The Dongyou 东游 Mingandian 明安殿 has held ten guanjie
spirit medium training sessions and has over 180 members of its Tanban
spirit medium association.
V695

Tiezao 铁灶

1. Village settlement Tiezao belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. There are currently close to 1000 people in the village living in over 200 households. The village is not divided into neighborhoods.
The main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Li 李, the Zhang
张, and the Guo 郭. The Huang 黄 make up more than 80% of the village population, and they belong to the Shiting Huang lineage of Houtingjia
石庭黄姓后亭甲.
3. Village temples 1) Xianlieshê 显烈社, in the Tieshan jing 铁山境,
within the Mingwangdian 明王殿. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣
王. Other secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong
yuanshuai 康公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Wenwu zhushen
文武诸神.
2) Guangji baodian 广济宝殿 was built in 1996 and consecrated 开光 in
1998. The main god worshipped in Jigong heshang 济公和尚. Secondary gods
include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lv dongbin 吕洞宾, Taishang laojun
太上老君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士.
3) Fengxingdian 凤兴殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1006

part four

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the Li 李 and Zhang 张 and the
Guo 郭 invite the temple incense burners to proceed to their homes to practice the Dao (xingdao). On 1/15, the Huang 黄 invite the incense burners
to their homes to practice the Dao (xingdao). On a date early in the second
month, determined by divination, there is a procession of the gods around
the boundaries of the village.
Birthday celebrations of gods
1/23: The birthday celebration of Jigong 济公.
2/15: The birthday celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君.
3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.
4/7: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.
5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王.
6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士
7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
Each god’s birthday is celebrated with two to three days of opera. the birthday celebrations of gods are organized by the entire village, and funding is
contributed on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban of the Shitinggong
石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. Each surname group take turns according
to age to become the Fushou 福首.
V696 Tianzhongyang 田中央
1. Village settlement Tianzhongyang belongs to the Shixi Administrative
Village 石西行政村. The village has more than 1000 people.
2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the
villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏
大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Yuying shuyuan 育英学院 was built in Jiaqing 20
(1815). The main god worshipped is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary
gods are Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of
Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
The following gods are worshipped on the dates indicated:
2/2: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.
2/2: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
6/6: Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1007

8/21: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃.
Each god receives two or three days of opera as an offering.
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium altar
association of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞.
V697 Sanzhangcuo 三张厝
1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500.
2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the
villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏
大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 was originally made up of the
Fushantang 福山堂 and the Yuxingtang 玉兴堂. This temple was originally
built during the Qing Tongzhi period (1862–74), and was rebuilt in 1985,
at which time the two temples were combined into one. The main god worshipped is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng
张三丰, Zhou zhenren 卓真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Hufa longtian
护法龙天, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Li daxian 李大仙, Xie daxian 谢大
仙, Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙, Badong daxian 八洞大
仙, Yang tianbing 杨天兵, Li jiangjun 李将军, Zhangdu shenghou 张都圣
侯, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅
and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 586 initiates.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of
Shiting 石庭 Damenjia 大门甲. The event is organized by Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
3/16: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人.
6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.
8/21: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃.
Each god receives two or three days of opera as an offering.
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban of the Shitinggong
石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. The Three in One temple has several tens
of adherents.
V698 Zhaili 寨里
1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi administrative village region 石西行政村. The current population is around 500.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1008

part four

2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the
villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏
大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Tongmingdian 通明殿 was recently rebuilt, and is
said to have divided incense and branched off from Wuhoushan 五侯山 in
Beigao 北高. The main god worshipped is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. The
secondary gods are Yinru tongzi 银如童子, Jide xingjun 记德星君, Sanyi
jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人,
Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, Xie zhenren 谢真人, Chen xunbu 陈巡部, Xuantan
yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天
大圣, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Hufa jiangjun 护法将军, Nandou xingjun 南
斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai
康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Leigong 雷公,
Dianmu 电母, Fengshen 风神, Yubo 雨伯, Zhaocai tongzi 招财童子, Jinshu
tongzi 金书童子.
2) Baiyunfu 白云府 was recently constructed, and has not yet been consecrated. The main god worshipped is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The
secondary gods are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of
Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by the Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are worshipped on
the dates indicated:
1/9: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝.
4/7: Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅).
6/6: Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
7/23: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
Each god’s birthday is honored with offerings of two to three days of opera.
The celebrations are organized by members of the Tanban
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium altar
associations of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞.
V699

Zhongyangcuo 中央厝

1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500.
2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the
villagers are members of the Shiting 石庭 Huang 黄 lineage of Damenjia
大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Chongxindian 重新殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1009

2) Ciyunan 慈云庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Weito 韦驮
and 迦蓝 are worshipped as secondary gods.
3) Gutingtang 古厅堂 is said to have been the precursor to the Shitinggong
石庭宫. It is now the ancestral house of Damenjia 大门甲公厅. The main
gods worshipped are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子
(Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅), Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Fazhu xianfei
法主仙妃 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of
Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
6/30: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.
8/21: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃.
9/13: The birthday celebration of a collective offering for all the gods of the
Gutingtang 古厅堂诸神诞辰 Each celebration involves two to three
days of opera.
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban of the Shitinggong
石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞.
V700

Qiaotouwai 桥头外

1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 1100.
2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Yumingtang 玉明堂 was built in 1939 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君
and Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人.
2) Fengmeidian 凤美殿 was rebuilt during the Guangxu period. The main
god worshipped is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Other secondary gods
include Huangshi xiangfei 黄氏仙妃, Chen jiangjun 陈将军 and Wenwu
zhushen 文武诸神.
3) Gutingqian 古厅前 is dedicated to the ancestors of the Huang lineage,
and secondarily to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士,
Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1010

part four

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of
Shiting Damenjia 大门甲. The event is organized by the Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are worshipped on
the dates indicated:
2/2: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
7/16: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.
7/28: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.
8/21: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃.
Each god is honored with eight days of opera, and the celebrations are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funds are gathered on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium altar
associations of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. There are
over 100 initiates into the Three in One temple of the village, the Yumingtang 玉明堂. The temples activities are managed by fve Fushou who are
selected accordiing to their age and serve in rotation.
V701 Yuanyangcuo 鸳鸯厝
1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500. Over 600 villagers
live abroad as Overseas Chinese, mostly in Southeast Asia (Singapore and
Malaysia). A small number live in England, the United States, and Argentina.
2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the
villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄
氏大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Riminglou 日明楼 is a spirit medium cavern-temple (洞) belonging to the Jinlunjiao 金轮教 altar. The main god worshipped
is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天
大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军,
Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神, Miaolie zhongjun 妙烈中军, Jiutian yuanshuai
九天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang daren
章大人 and Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of
Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by the Fushou 福首.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/27: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
4/2: The birthday celebration of Zhang daren 章大人 and Lufu yima 鲁府
姨妈.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1011

5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神.
7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
Each god’s birthday is celebrated with two days of opera. All elders above
55 are invited to the temple to eat fried noodles. Funds are usually provided
by Overseas Chinese. The celebrations are managed by the members of the
Tanban altar association.
5. Ritual Groups The Riminglou has a Tanban spirit medium altar association with over 60 members, and has held guanjie 关戒 seven times since
1991. Qitin dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingtong
shenghou 灵通圣侯, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Tongtian shenghou
通天圣侯 all descend to possess spirit mediums. Formerly there was a Altar
Master 坛主, but now there is a Management Committee 管委会.
V702 Dingxipo 顶西坡
1. Village settlement Dingxipo belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current village population is over 568.
2. Surname groups The village is made up of members of the Huang 黄,
the Liu 刘, the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡 surname groups. The Huang are in
the majority, and belong to the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄
氏大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Longshangong 龙山宫 of Denglongjing 登龙境 contains the Wenxingshê 文兴社. The main gods worshipped are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guangping Zhouwang 广平
周王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng
伽罗大圣, Zongguan houwang (Tiger god) 总管侯王(虎爷), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Haotian dizi (Tiangong yuanshuai)
昊天帝子(田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童,
Jiangou shizhe (Daye) 鉴钩使者大爷, Zhangshan shizhe (Erye) 彰善使者
(二爷).
2) Gaoyuantang Buddhist hall 高源堂 was built during the Guangxu period
(1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:210).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of their village
temple). On 1/14, the Huang 黄 lineage members take part in the xingdao
of Shiting Damenjia 大门甲. At the beginning of the 2nd lunar month, on
a date decided by divination, the village participates in a joint procession
around the boundaries with Xiaxipo 下西坡 and Bangui 半圭 villages.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1012

part four

4/19: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
Each god birthday is celebrated with two to three days of opera. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are gathered
on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium Altar Association, and they have already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings.
Every year ten Fushou 福首 rotate into the temple committee, on the basis
of their age.
V703 Xiaxipo 下西坡
1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative
Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 1000.
2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the
villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄
氏大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Longshangong 龙山宫 contains the Wenxing xishê
文兴西社. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped
are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guangping Zhouwang 广平周王, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公
圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zongguan houwang (tiger god) 总管侯王
(虎爷), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑.
2) Qinghuatang Buddhist hall 庆华堂 was built in the Republican period
(PTZJZCG, 1992:210).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take part in the
xingdao of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. At the beginning of the 2nd
lunar month, on a date decided by divination, the village participates in a
joint procession around the boundaries with Shangxipo 上西坡 and Bangui
半圭 villages.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.
3/4: The birthday celebration of Guangping Zhouwang 广平周王.
4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian lingguan dadi 五显灵官大帝.
4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.
5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1013

Each god birthday is celebrated with two to three days of opera. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are gathered
on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups The temple has a Tanban 坛班 altar association with over
100 members. Since 1980 there have been six guanjie 关戒 spirit medium
training sessions.
V704 Bangui 半圭
1. Village settlement Bangui belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village石西行政村. The current population is around 300. The village is not
divided into neighborhoods.
2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village,
including the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Huang 黄. The
Huang villagers are the largest group, and are members of the Shiting Huang
lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Wuxiangong 五显宫 contains the Wenxingshê
文兴社 as well as the Wenxing xishê 文兴西社. The date of construction is
unknown. The main gods are Wuxian lingguan dadi 五显灵官大帝, Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include
Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng
伽罗大圣, Zongguan houwang (tiger god) 总管侯王(虎爷), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jin Xiangu 金仙姑, Li Xiangu 李仙
姑, and Xu Xiangu 许仙姑.
2) Tianhusi Buddhist temple 天湖寺 was built during the Qing (PTZJZCG,
1992:210).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the villagers take part in the
xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of their village
temple).
On 1/14 the villagers take part in the xingdao of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门
甲. At the beginning of the 2nd lunar month, on a date decided by divination, the village participates in a joint procession around the boundaries with
the villages of Shangxipo 上西坡 and Xiaxipo 下西坡.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
4/22: The birthday celebration of Wuxian lingguan dadi 五显灵官大帝. In
celebration of the god, opera is performed for two to three days, and
the entire village organizes the event together. Funds are gathered on
a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association
with 28 members. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has been held many
times. Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1014

part four

张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 all
descend to possess spirit mediums.
V705 Houcheng 后埕
1. Village settlement Houcheng was originally known as Xiaxipo 下西坡.
This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村.
The current population is around 500. The village is not divided into
neighborhoods.
2. Surname groups The Huang surname group is the largest in the village,
and they are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏
大门甲.
3. Village temples 1) Jinshangong 金山宫 (also known as the Beijidian
北极殿) is part of Houshê jing 后佘境 and contains the Xinan qianshê 新
安前社. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji
zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫
人. The secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都
天元帅, Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
2) Yongfumiao 永福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
3) Lingfengdian 凌峰殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊.
4) Wulumiao 五路庙 (also known as the Jinshan zumiao 金山祖庙) is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军.
5) Gaoming shuyuan 高明书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and
secondarily to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the villagers take part in the
xingdao procession (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of
their village temple). On 2/6 the gods go on a procession around the village
boundaries.
Birthday celebrations of the gods:
1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝.
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
5/5: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官.
6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. In celebration
of the god, opera is performed for two to three days, and the entire village organizes the event together. Funds are gathered on a per capita
basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association
which has held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions several times.
They belong to the Lushan Dafayuan 闾山大法院.
A152

Fengmei qijing (Fengmei sevenfold ritual alliance) 丰美七境
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1015

A152

Fengmei sevenfold ritual alliance

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1016

part four

The Fengmei sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Upper Channel
of the Jiuliyang irrigation system 九里洋上沟. This area was part of the
Tiezaopu 铁皂铺 of Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Dongtian 东田, Xiaxiao 下肖 and Fangwei 方尾 (Fengmei 丰美)
were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Bangwei 邦尾, Xiabangwei
下邦尾, Jingtou 井头 and Zhongzhai 中宅 separated off. This area is currently managed by the Fengmei 丰美, Fengshan 丰山 and Houfeng 厚峰
Administrative Villages.
Originally, the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance was in Shicen 石岑 neighborhood of Dongtian 东田 village. Due to a conflict between
white and black banner alliances, the temple was dismantled in Qing Jiaqing
16 (1811), and each village took various gods back with them to worship.
Each village then built its own shê altar and its own temples. The main gods
of the main temple were distributed in the following way: Dingbangwei 顶
邦尾 was given Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Xiabangwei 下邦尾 was given
Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaxiao 下肖 was given Zunzhu mingwang
尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Dongtian 东田 was given Qitian
dasheng 齐天大圣, Jingtou 井头 was given Falu dutong 法籙都统. Zhongzhai 中宅 probably joined the ritual alliance later, and therefore were not
given a share of the gods of the main temple.
In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of
Dongtian 东田, Xiaxiao 下肖, Jingtou 井头 and Zhongzhai 中宅 were part
of the black banner alliance, while the village of Xiabangwei 下邦尾 was part
of the white banner alliance and Dingbangwei 顶邦尾 was part of the red
banner alliance.
V706 Xiaxiao 下肖
1. Village settlement Xiaxiao is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Fengmei 丰美七境. It belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行
政村. There are currently more than 700 people living in the village. The
main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups All villagers are of the Xiao 肖 surname group. The
Xiao are divided into four lineage branches: Tianxia 田下, Jucuo 居厝,
Jiucuo 旧厝, and Yaodou 窑兜. There originally was an ancestral hall 祠堂
in the village. Dingrou 丁肉 (per capita portions of meat) was distributed on
lunar New Year’s Eve. Currently, only three to four generations of ancestors
are worshipped.
3. Village temples 1) Wudangdian 武当殿 is in Xiaxiao ritual alliance 下
肖境 and contains the Lixingshê 礼兴社. The temple was built in 1811, when
it branched off from the main temple in Dongtian东田. The main gods are
Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1017

后土夫人. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo dasheng
伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fuma shenghou 福马圣侯, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑,
Qinglou nüjiang 青楼女将, Sanyan wuyan 三眼五眼, Wencao wupan 文曹
武判, and Zuoyou shizhe 左右使者.
2) Zhenbentang 真本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,
1992:33 claims that there are 476 initiates.
3) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB,
1992:33 records 250 initiates.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, all the gods are taken in a procession to each lineage branch to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 2/3,
there is a procession of the gods around the village borders.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/3: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 are celebrated by the village all together.
The rest of the god’s birthdays are organized by each lineage branch:
4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized
by the Jiucuo 旧厝 branch.
5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣 and Jin dajiangjun 金大将军 is organized by the Yaodou 窑兜 branch.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Fuma
shengwang 福马圣王 is organized by the Weicuo 尾厝 branch;
9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized
by the Tianxia 田下 branch.
5. Ritual Groups Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times, starting in 1982.
The Tanban spirit medium altar association was originally called Benyuantan
本原坛, and the number of members is unknown.
V707 Xiabangwei 下邦尾
1. Village settlement Xiabangwei is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance
of Fengmei 丰美七境. Xiabangwei belongs to the Fengshan Administrative
Village 丰山行政村. There are currently more than 2100 people living in the
village. The village is divided by surname into three jia 甲neighborhoods. The
main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方, the Xu 许, and
the Li 李. The Xu is the largest surname group, and has divided into four
lineage branches. The Fang and the Li emigrated into the village from elsewhere. Their origins are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Jinlundian 金轮殿 is in Fengmeijing 丰美境
and contains the Lixing qianshê 礼兴前社, which was renovated in Qing

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1018

part four

Guangxu 31 (1905). The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天
上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元
帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng
伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅,
Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Ling jiangjun 灵将军,
Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Sanyan wuyan 三眼五
眼, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Qinglou diqi 青娄地祗, and Wencao wujiang
文曹武将.
2) Zhenben shuyuan 真本书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–1/14, the gods are invited
to each home to xingdao 行道. On 1/17 there is a procession of the gods
around the village borders.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Fang
方.
3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Lingguan dadi 灵官大
帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王 is organized by the entire village all together.
4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the
Xu 许.
5/5: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣 is are organized by the
Xu 许.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the
Xu 许.
8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the
Fang 方.
9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Li 李.
5. Ritual Groups There are more than fifty-six members of the Tanban 坛
班 altar association. There is still one generation of old spirit mediums, and
two generations of new mediums. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has
taken place five times since 1983. Members of the temple management committee are selected by lineage and by lineage branch. There are 103 members
of the board. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected; the Xu 许 pick four,
and the Fang 方 and the Li 李 each select one.
V708 Dingbangwei 顶邦尾
1. Village settlement Dingbangwei is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance
of Fengmei 丰美七境 and also belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village
丰山行政村. There are currently more than 1100 people living in the vil-

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1019

lage, which is divided into four neighborhoods by surname group. The main
livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The next
largest surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Yu 俞,
Liu 刘, and Cai 蔡. The Chen is divided into three branches, living in three
jia 甲. Others like the Zheng and the Liu live in one jia 甲.
3. Village temples 1) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 is in Fengmeijing 丰美境
and contains the Lixing shangshê 礼兴上社. The date of construction is
unknown. The main gods worshipped are Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生
大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods
include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Sandian
zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Falu dutong 法籙都统, Wuan
shengjun 武按圣君, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Yuqian zhongjun 御前中
军, and Yongquan zushi 永泉祖师.
2) Zhengshantang Buddhist hall 正善堂 was built in the Qing (PTZJZCG,
1992).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, gods are welcomed to each jia
甲 to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, a procession is held to return
the gods to the temple, and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 goes on a circuit of
the village boundaries.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/10: The birthday celebration of Falu dutong 法籙都统 is organized by the
Chen of the third neighborhood 陈三甲.
3/28: The celebration for Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is organized by the entire
village.
5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by
the Chen of the first neighborhood 陈一甲.
6/1: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is organized
by the Chen of the second neighborhood 陈二甲.
6/19: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Qiugong
shenghou 邱公圣侯 are organized by the Zheng 郑, Yu 俞, Cai 蔡, and
Liu 刘 of the fourth neighborhood.
7/7: The celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is organized by the
Chen of the second neighborhood 陈二甲.
8/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the entire
village.
5. Ritual Groups In 1983, 1995, and 2004 three 关戒 spirit medium training sessions were held. There are still two generations of old mediums, and
there are twenty new spirit mediums who have been trained. Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君,
Falu dutong 法籙都统, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 and Qiugong shengjun

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1020

part four

邱公圣君 all descend to possess mediums. There is a Mingxiaci 明夏祠 with
around thirty Three in One members.
V709 Jingtou 井头
1. Village settlement Jingtou is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Fengmei 丰美七境. It belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行
政村. There are currently approximately 500 people living in the village. The
main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese.
2. Surname groups The villagers are of the He 何 surname group. The He
emigrated from Xinjing 新井 of Jiangkou 江口. The village has an ancestral
hall and an ancestral tomb. The main spirit tablet of each household is kept
in the ancestral hall. The sweeping of the ancestral tombs is done by the
board of directors.
3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 is in the Jingtoujing 井头境, and
contains the Lixing dongshê 礼兴东社. The temple was built in Qing Tongzhi 7 (1868). The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝,
Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods
worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 (Zhang Xun 张巡), Zhongtian
dasheng 中天大圣, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 (Lei Wanchun 雷万春),
Falu dutong 法籙都统, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Yongquan zushi 永泉
祖师, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, gods are welcomed to each
household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, the procession of the
gods returns to the temple after inspecting the borders of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/10: The birthday celebration of Falu dutong 法籙都统.
3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅.
5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王.
6/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福
德正神.
6/10: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君.
7/7: The birthday celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王.
8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃.
8/22: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.
On each god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations
are organized by the village all together, and funds are gathered according to
shêfen (one’s share in the she) “灶分”, that is, by households.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1021

5. Ritual Groups Since 1980, there have been three guanjie 关戒 spirit
medium training sessions. Each year, people are selected to be Fushou 福首
on the basis of their age, in rotation.
V710 Dongtian 东田
1. Village settlement Dongtian is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of
Fengmei 丰美七境 and also belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰
山行政村. There are currently more than 500 people living in the village.
Dongtian is divided into four neighborhoods: Shangcuo 上厝, Xiacuo 下厝,
Zhongjiancuo 中间厝, and Weicuo 尾厝. The main livelihood is agriculture.
2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Ou 欧. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑.
3. Village temples 1) Wudangdian 武当殿 (Fuchengong 福宸宫) is in the
Dongtianjing 东田境, and contains the Minanshê 民安社: This temple was
built in Qing Jiaqing 16 (1811). The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上
帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘
公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Oushi
xiangu 欧氏仙姑, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the gods are invited to each
household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao. On 1/19, the gods go on procession around the village borders and return to the temple.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/23: the birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is celebrated.
5/13: the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is celebrated.
These events are organized by the village as a whole.
5. Ritual Groups Since 1980, there have been three guanjie 关戒 spirit
medium training sessions.
V711 Zhongzhai 中宅
1. Village settlement Zhongzhai is part of the former sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境. It belongs to the Houfeng Administrative Village 后峰行政村. There are currently approximately 400 people living in the
village, which is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is
agriculture.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林, and the
Chen 陈. The Zheng has approximately 200 people and is divided into three
branches. The Lin 林 and the Chen 陈 each have approximately 100 people.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1022

part four

3. Village temples 1) Beiyuangong 北垣宫 of Zhongchajing 中垞境 contains the Chongxingshê 重兴社, which was originally constructed in Qing
Qianlong 60 (1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu
furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Qitian
dasheng 齐天大圣, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君,
Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Xuantan shangdi 玄坛上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai
田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the gods are welcomed to each
household; On 1/15, a procession is held around the village border, and then
the gods return to the temple.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by
the Chen 陈.
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized
by the entire village.
4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Zheng 郑.
4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized
by the Lin 林
5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by
the Zheng 郑.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Zheng 郑.
8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is organized
by the entire village.
5. Ritual Groups Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place
three times since 1980. During the Guanjie ritual eight elders are selected to
serve as the Bazhengwang 八政王. The number of Tanban 坛班 altar associates is unknown.
A153 Banliang shisanxiang (Banliang thirteen village ritual alliance)
阪梁十三乡
The Banliang thirteen village alliance is located on the edge of the Jiuliyang
irrigation system. Water for irrigation comes from the Upper and Middle
Channels of the Jiuliyang irrigation system, and from the springs flowing
down from Nangshan 囊山 Mountain. This area was part of the Qinkengpu
芹坑铺 and Tiezaopu 铁灶铺 (police/defense units) of Yongfengli subcanton 永丰里. In the Ming, the villages of Houfang 后坊, Qinkeng 芹坑,
Houpu 后埔 and Liangcuo 梁厝 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages
of Houdong 后董, Shangcai 上蔡, Banxi 坂溪, Linban 林坂, Shandou 山兜,
Kutang 苦塘 (Ketang 可塘), Liuzhuang 刘庄 and Xiwu 西吴 separated off.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1023

A153

Banliang thirteen village ritual alliance

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1024

part four

The Xiwu Huiqingtang 西吴会庆堂 temple, located on the border between
the Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton and the Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton, is the main temple of the Banliang thirteen village alliance 阪梁十三
乡的总宫. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君. Each year with an intercalary lunar third month, the
thirteen village alliance of Banliang 阪梁十三乡 joins with the thirteen jia
alliance of Tangtou 塘头十三甲 in a collective procession, carrying Xuantian
shangdi around the villages of both alliances. In addition, the Qingjingtan
清静坛 temple, located in Houfang 后坊 village, with its Yiyi zushê 仪依
祖社, is another main temple of the ritual alliance. On irregular occasions,
the Dongyue Zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 god is taken out for a ritual
procession.
In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the thirteen village alliance of Banliang was part of the black banner alliance.
V712 Houfang 后坊
1. Village settlement Houfang belong to the Houfeng Administrative Village 厚峰行政村. There are currently more than 1300 people living in the
village, which is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture, specially the growing of longyan 龙眼. Many villagers leave to work
in cities or abroad. This is a traditional Overseas Chinese home village.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Fang 方, Cai 蔡, and Xu 许. The
Fang 方 make up approximately 60% of the people. The Cai 蔡 and the Xu 许
each have more than 100 people. Their origins and genealogies are unknown.
3. Village temples 1) Qingjingtan 清静坛 contains the Yiyi zushê 仪依祖
社. The original date of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated
in 1915. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土
夫人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生
大帝. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天
大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong
yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元
帅, Tiayi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen
后土夫人.
2) Shengshousi Buddhist temple 圣寿寺 was originally built during the
Guangqi period 光启 (885–887) by Buddhist monk Xiuyan 秀岩. The
monastery was rebuilt or repaired many times, in the Yuan Zhida period
(1308–1311), in Yongle 2 (1404), in Jingtai 6 (1455), in Wanli 32 (1604), in
Chongzhen 4 (1631), in Kangxi 10 (1671), in Kangxi 24 (1685) and again
during Republican period. In 1956, the Buddhist monk Miaode 妙德 and
Wuzhou 悟舟 rebuilt it again. The monastery preserves a stele composed in
Jingtai 6 (1455), entitled 圣寿寺兴废及田粮数记石 (Stone inscription of the
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1025

rise and fall of the Saintly Longevity Buddhist temple with a list of land and
harvest yields) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:100, No. 90 ) and a second stele
composed in Jiaqing 13 (1808) entitled 莆田县正堂示谕圣寿寺业不许僧民
私相典卖碑 (Stele with the Putian district magistrate’s decree forbidding the
private pawning or sale of the land or property of the Shengshou Monastery
by monks or commoners) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:273, No. 238).
3) Laiposi Buddhist temple 莱坡寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:211).
4) Fengshengsi Buddhist temple 奉圣寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:211).
5) Lipingan Buddhist nunnery 鲤平庵 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZCG,
1992:211).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back
from heaven and opera is performed for two days. On 1/13–1/15 the incense
burners of the gods are invited to each household to xingdao 行道. Early in
the second lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the gods go on
procession around the borders of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Fang
方.
3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the
village as a whole.
3/28: The celebration of Dongyue dadi 东岳大帝 is organized by the village
as a whole.
4/7: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the
Fang 方.
4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the
Xu 许.
5/5: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Fang 方.
6/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后
土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the
Cai 蔡.
9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the
Fang 方.
5. Ritual Groups There are 50 members of the Tanban 坛班 altar association. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred three times. The
Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 god goes on procession around the
entire Houfang qijing 后坊七境 on irregular occasions.
V713 Houdong 后董

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1026

part four

1. Village settlements Houdong is part of the Houfeng Administrative
Village 厚峰行政村. The current village population is over 300 people. The
village is not divided into neighborhoods.
2. Surname groups This is a single surname village of the surname Bai 白.
The village is sometimes called Baijiazhuang 白家庄.
3. Village temples 1) Yongxingshê 永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张
公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅,
Shangjie Zhu daniangniang 上界朱大娘娘, Baosong furen 抱送夫人, Baiya
jiangjun 白牙将军.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the incense burners of the gods
are carried in a procession to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/14
after completing a procession around the village borders and returning to the
temple, Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao communal sacrifice.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣诞.
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
4/7: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.
5/1: The birthday celebration of Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅.
7/7: The birthday celebration of Shangjie Zhu daniangniang 上界朱大娘.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
12/10: The birthday celebration of Baosong furen 抱送夫人.
On each of these god’s birthdays opera is performed for two days. These
events are organized by the village as a whole. Funds are gathered on a per
capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association
with some 70 members. Since 1984 there have been two cycles or a total of
six guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The group adheres to the
Lushan dafayuan 庐山大法院.
V714

Shangcai 上蔡

1. Village settlement Shangcai belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. There are currently more than 1500 people living in the
village.
2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yang 杨, the Lin 林, the Zheng
郑, and the Yan 严. The number of people for each surname group is
unknown.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1027

3. Village temples 1) Qingjingtan 清静坛 of Shangcaijing 上蔡境 contains
the Yiyi zushê 仪依祖社. This temple was renovated in 1914. The main gods
worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and
Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣,
Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qingniang nüjiang 清娘女将, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, and Sanyan wuyan
三眼五眼.
2) Dongyousi Buddhist temple 东游寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:210).
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the temple are taken in a procession to each household to xingdao 行道, practice the
Dao. On 1/18, the gods go on a tour of inspection around the borders of the
village 绕境巡游.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
6/6: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土
夫人 is celebrated.
7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is celebrated.
9/9: The birthday of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is celebrated.
On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. The
events are organized by the village as a whole and funds are raised on a per
capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association, but the number
of members is unknown. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred
three times, once a year from 1986–1988.
V715 Banxi 坂溪
1. Village settlement Banxi belongs to the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1000 people. The village is
divided into two jia 甲 sections by surname group.
2. Surname groups This village has several surnames, including the Huang
黄, the Liu 刘, the Dai 戴, the Fu 傅, the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. The Huang
黄 and the Dai 戴 are the major surname groups. There is a Huang lineage
hall 黄氏宗祠 and a Dai lineage hall 戴氏祠堂.
3. Village temples 1) Banxigong 坂溪宫 and its Anrenshê 安仁社, were
rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 36 (1771). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu
mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝.
Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大
圣, Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈圣侯, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣.
2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 belongs to the Fu 傅 and the Li 李 surnames, and is
dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
3) Tianwangdian 天王殿 is dedicated to Beishan dawang 北山大王.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1028

part four

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Huang 黄, the Dai 戴,
the Chen 陈, and the Liu 刘 invite the incense burners of the shê altar to
visit each household to xingdao 行道. On the following days, 1/12–13 the
Fu 傅 and the Li 李 do the same. After the Yuanxiao festival has ended, a
day is chosen by divination for the gods to go on a tour of inspection of the
boundaries of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊
主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a
whole.
2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the
Huang 黄.
3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole.
5/5: The celebrating of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Dai 戴.
6/15: The celebration of Beishan dawang 北山大王 is organized by the village as a whole.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the
Li 李
7/10: The celebration of Jiushiye 九使爷 ( Jiucha dashen 纠察大神) is organized by the Fu 傅.
9/28: The celebration of Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈圣侯 is organized by the
Liu 刘.
On each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association with 60 members. They have already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings six
times.
V716

Liangcuo 梁厝

1. Village settlement Liangcuo is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1300 people. The village is
divided into two jia 甲 sections by surname.
2. Surname groups The village is made up of members of the Liang 梁
and Dai 戴 surname groups. The Liang are the most important lineage, and
are divided into five branches.
3. Village temples 1) Changfu zushê 长福祖社 and the Beijidian 北极殿
of Liangcuo shengjing 梁厝胜境 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主
明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary
gods include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君,
Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guishan dawang 龟山

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1029

大王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Heimian
Li furen 黑面李夫人 and Disi gong niangniang 第四宫娘娘.
2) Chongxiaodian 重宵殿 was built during the Ming Chenghua period
(1465–87) and in 1997 was made a county level cultural preservation site. The
main god worshipped is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include
Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君.
3) Qiyundian 齐云殿 is dedicated to Ducha dashen 都察大神.
4) Zhongdoudian 中兜殿 is dedicated to Haotian yuanshuai 昊天元帅.
5) Fudemiao 福德庙 was rebuilt in 1996 and is dedicated to Fude zhengshen
福德正神.
6) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, with Weito
韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰.
7) Huang daxianci 黄大仙祠 was built in 1996 by Hong Kong Overseas
Chinese from the village, and was consecrated in 1998. The main god worshipped in Huang Daxian 黄大仙. Secondary gods include Chifeng Zhangyu
jiangjun 敕封张禹将军 and Chifeng Wangxin xianshi 敕封王幸仙师.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Liang 梁 invite the
incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道.
On the following days, 1/14–15 the Dai 戴 do the same. After the Yuanxiao
festival has ended, a day is chosen by divination for the gods to go on a tour
of inspection of the boundaries of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
2/2: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.
3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
5/4: The birthday celebration of Haotian yuanshuai 昊天元帅.
6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
8/14: The birthday celebration of Guishan dawang 龟山大王.
For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days, and the event
is organized by the village as a whole.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association with six spirit
mediums 神童 and over 80 futong 扶童 (assistant lads). They have already
conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings six times. The Mingdetang
明德堂 has a Guanyin dashi goddess association 观音大士神明会, which
conducts rituals each year on 1/22.
V717 Linban 林坂
1. Village settlement Linban is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 500 people. The village is
not divided into neighborhoods.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1030

part four

2. Surname groups The village is made up of three surname groups, the
Yi 伊, the Liang 梁 and the Yu 余.
3. Village temples hangfushe 长福社 and Beijidian 北极殿 of Longshanjing 龙山境 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang
尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê
altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
The following gods are celebrated on the dates indicated:
2/2: Qitian dasheng. 齐天大圣.
10/27: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人.
For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days, and the event
is organized by the village as a whole.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班spirit medium altar association,
and they have conducted 关戒 spirit medium trainings.
V718

Shandou 山兜

1. Village settlement Shandou is also called Nanshan 南山 or Nongshan
农山. It is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1000 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods.
2. Surname groups The Chen 陈, the He 何, and the Lin 林 are the main
surname groups. There are also other surnames, such as the Li李, the Huang
黄 and the Yao 姚, living in the village.
3. Village temples 1) Qingyunmiao 青云庙 is in Qiongshanjing 琼山
境, and contains the Fushoushê 福寿社. This temple was first built in Ming
Longqing 4 (1570), and is said to have divided its incense from the Huangbishan in Fuqing 福清黄檗山. In recent years it has been rebuilt. The main
gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫
人, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神(Jiushi 九使, Shishi 十使, Shiyishi十一使). Secondary gods include Jiu taitai 九太太, Hei jiangjun 黑将军, Bai jiangjun 白
将军 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军.
2) 琼山宫 Qiongshangong contains the Qingshoutan 庆寿坛. The main god
worshipped is Anling shenggong 安灵圣公. The secondary gods include
Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
3) Yuanqian shuyuan 院前书院 was recently rebuilt . The temple is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, secondary gods include Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1031

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 the gods are invited from
the Qiongshangong to visit each household to xingdao 行道, practice the
Dao. On a day between 1/20–30, determined by divination, Daoist masters
are invited to hold a jiao 做醮 communal sacrifice, and the spirit mediums
seal the crossroads against demonic influences 封路.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
8/28: The birthday celebration of Anling shenggong 安灵圣公.
9/9: The birthday celebration of Jiushi 九使.
9/10: The birthday celebration of Shishi 十使.
9/11: The birthday celebration of Shiyishi 十一使.
For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two or three days, and
the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per
capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association. In 1985 for
the first time a guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training was held. Later, because
many new spirit mediums moved overseas, in 2006 they held the second round of liantong chijie 炼童持戒 (training mediums to uphold the
prohibitions).
V719

Ketang 可塘

1. Village settlement Ketang was originally called Kutang 苦塘. The village belongs to the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current
village population is approximately 500 people. The village is not divided
into neighborhoods.
2. Surname groups Ketang village has families of the Lin 林, the Li 李,
and Huang 黄 surnames.
3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社 of Ketangjing 可塘境 was reconstructed in Qing Qianlong xinmao (1771). The main gods worshipped are
Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi
玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhonglie
(Tiangong) yuanshuai 忠烈 (田公)元帅, Fumo (Liugong) yuanshuai 伏魔
(刘公)元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian
shengmu (Chen Zhenren) 天前圣母(陈真人), Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅
and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 belongs to the Fu 傅 and the Li 李 surname groups,
and is dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公
圣君.
3) Tianwangdian 天王殿 is dedicated to Beishan dawang 北山大王.
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1032

part four

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê
altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao.
They then go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣.
7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君.
8/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人.
Each of these occasions is marked with two days of opera. On the following
occasions, only offerings are laid out:
3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝.
2/2: The birthday of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王.
4/7 and 8/25: The feast days of Zhonglie (Tiangong 田公) yuanshuai 忠烈
元帅.
4/18: The feast days for Fumo (Liugong 刘公) yuanshuai 伏魔元帅.
7/7: The feast days for the Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu
天前圣母. All these occasions are organized by the village as a whole,
and funds are raised on a per capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups The Anrenshê 安仁社 has a ancient altar 历代古坛 for
the spirit mediums of the past, and it has already conducted guanjie 关戒
spirit medium training.
V720

Shangliuzhuang 上刘庄

1. Village settlement Shangliuzhuang is also known as Dingcuo 顶厝. The
village is part of the Liuzhuang Administrative Village 刘庄行政村. The current village population is over 1000 people. The village is not divided into
neighborhoods.
2. Surname groups The village has the following main surname groups:
the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the huang 黄. The Lin 林 are the largest surname group.
3. Village temples 1) Wudanggong 武当宫 of Zhuangshanjing 庄山境
contains the Zhuangshan dongshe 庄山东社. The main gods worshipped
are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu
furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯.
2) Xinganmiao 兴安庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
3) Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu
yima 鲁府姨妈 and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1033

4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the incense burners of the shê
altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道. They then go on a
tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
7/7: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Chen Jinggu
陈靖姑.
8/18: The birthday celebration of Tiegong taishi 铁公太师.
For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two or three days, and
the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per
capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association, and 关戒 spirit
medium training has been held.
V721

Xialiuzhuang 下刘庄

1. Village settlement Xialiuzhuang includes Toucuo 头厝, Zhongyangcuo
中央厝 and Tianzhongyang 田中央. Xialiuzhuang is part of the Liuzhuang
Administrative Village 刘庄行政村. The current population is over 1000
people.
2. Surname groups The village is made up of three surname groups, the
Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 are the largest surname
group, and live in Tianzhongyang 田中央.
3. Village temples 1 The Wudanggong 武当宫 of Zhuangshanjing 庄山
境 contains the Zhuangshan zushê 庄山祖社. The main gods worshipped are
Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人. The secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianshang
shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai
温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅,
Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Nanyue Heng jiangjun 南岳衡将军, Beiyue Cao
jiangjun 北岳曹将军, Beiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin
shenghou 金圣侯, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷.
2) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 in Tianzhongyang 田中央, is dedicated to Guangze
zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Qiye 七爷, and Baye 八爷.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the incense burners of the shê
altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao.
They then go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated.
3/23: The birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is celebrated.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1034

part four

3/29: The birthday of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 are
celebrated.
6/10: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土
夫人 are celebrated.
For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two or three days, and
the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per
capita basis.
5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association, and 关戒 spirit
medium training was held twice in 1985 and in 1997.
V722

Xihu 西湖

1. Village settlement Xihu village was originally called Xiwu 西吴. The
village population is over 1400 people. The main livelihood is brick and tile
making.
2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 surname is the dominant surname group.
3. Village temples 1) Huiqingtang 会庆堂 contains the altar of the Jiying
zhongshê 集英中社. The temple is commonly referred to as the Xihugong
西湖宫, and is the main overall temple of the Tangtou thirteen village ritual
alliance 塘头十三甲总宫. The temple was first built in the Ming Chenghua
period (1465–1487), and was rebuilt in 1982. The main gods are Zhanggong
shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土
夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tianshang shengmu
天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Ma
zhongjun 马中军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Dong shizhe 东使者, and Xi
shizhe 西使者.
2) Biyundian 碧云殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary
gods include Nanchen xingjun 南辰星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君.
3) Hongyundian 红云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Zheng yi Wang lingguan
正一王灵官.
4) Pingtianci 平天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB,
1992:10 records 117 initiates.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, the villagers go to the Huiqingtang 会庆堂 to invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后
土夫人 to go on a procession through the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held and opera is performed for two days.
3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is
performed for two days.

Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

the jiuliyang irrigated plain 九里洋水利系统

1035

7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the
Huiqingtang 会庆堂. Opera is performed for five days and each year
with an intercalary seventh month there is a procession through the
entire thirteen village alliance.
5. Ritual Groups The temple management committee of the Huiqingtang
会庆堂 is formed of representatives from each of the thirteen member villages. There are eight spirit mediums, and they have held guanjie 关戒 spirit
medium training sessions twice. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of
Universal Deliverance are held.
V723 Qinkeng 芹坑
1. Village settlement Qinkeng village belongs to the Dongting Administrative Village 洞庭行政村. The population of the village is over 500 people.
2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yao 姚 and the Lin
林. The Yao are related to the Yao of Dongting 洞庭姚.
3. Village temples 1) Qinkengjing Jiying dongshê 芹坑境集英东社 is
dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都
天元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao.
That night there are processions of the gods through the village.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
6/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days.
7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is
performed for two days.
5. Ritual Groups There is no tanban 坛班 altar association.
V724

Tangbian 塘边

1. Village settlement Tangbian village belongs to the Xihu Administrative
Village 西湖行政村. The village population is over 200 people.
2. Surname groups The village has two main surnames, the Xu 徐 and the
Li李. The Xu are the main surname group.
3. Village temples 1) Tangbianjing Huixingshê 塘边境会兴社 contains
the Taizifu 太子府, and branched off from the Huiqingtang 会庆堂. The
main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wang
Taizi 王太子, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include
Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐
天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo
Kenneth Dean and Zhenman ZHENG - 978-90-47-44017-8
Downloaded from Brill.com02/18/2020 04:31:15AM
via National University of Singapore - YNC Library

1036

part four

dashen 伽罗大圣, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母,
Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神.
4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, villagers carry the incense
burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That
night there are processions of linked lanterns, and the roadways are sealed
against demonic influences 封路.
Birthday celebrations of the gods
3/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen
后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days.
4/15: The celebration of Wangtaizi 王太子 is held and opera is performed
for two days.
6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held and opera is
performed for two days.
10/12: The celebration of Heihu dashen 黑虎大神 is held and opera is performed for two days.

