['
A001 Beitou sishê (Beitou four shê ritual alliance) 陂头四社 The four shê ritual alliance of Beitou (Head of the Weir) is situated along the side of the main irrigation channel that emerges directly from the side of the Mulan Weir and proceeds straight through the southern irrigated plain. This was the main channel first dug in 1082. This area was originally part of the Mulanbeipu 木兰陂铺 (police/defense unit) and the Baidulingpu 白杜岭铺 of the Weixinli sub-canton 维新里. In the Ming, the village of Beitou 陂头 was already settled in this area. In the early Qing the villages of Tiezao 铁灶 and Baiyuling 白玉岭 separated off and became independent villages. In the late Qing, the village of Wumen 吴门 branched off as well. The Xieying Li Zhangzhemiao 协应李长者庙 and the Qianfeimiao 钱妃庙 by the side of the Mulan Weir were the main overall temples of the four shê alliance of Beitou 总宫, and each year during the Yuanxiao festival the gods of these temples would be carried in a procession through the villages of the alliance. Currently, the Li Zhangzhe miao has been turned into the Mulan Weir Irrigation System Museum 木兰陂水利纪念馆, and the Qianfeimiao has turned into the village temple of Beitou village 陂头村. Thus the Yuanxiao overall procession has not yet been revived. The original inhabitants of the Beitou four shê alliance were the descendants of founders of the Mulan Weir, Li Hong 李宏 and the descendants of the Fourteen Families of Shuinan responsible for the maintenance of the Mulan irrigation system. For this reason, most of the villages in the alliance are mixed surname villages. In the late Qing feuding banner alliances, the Beitou four shê ritual alliance belonged to the red banner alliance. 
V001 Beitou 陂头 1. Village settlement Beitou village is part of the Mulan Administrative Village 木兰行政村. The total population of Beitou is approximately 800 people. The village is built facing the Mulan Weir. The former temple to Li Zhangzhe (Li Hong) by the side of the Mulan Weir has now been converted into the Mulan Irrigation System Museum, featuring images of Li Hong, Lady Qian, and Lin. Several stelae relating to the Weir and the temples that were built near it have been preserved, the texts of other inscriptions can be Beitou four shê ritual alliance found in regional gazetteers, irrigation system gazetteers, and literati collected writings. A group of stelae, ancient and modern, have been gathered and are displayed in the grounds of the Museum. As the Mulan Weir is one of the most significant constructions on the Putian plain, several historical stone inscriptions about this site can be found, include the following sixteen stelae: 1) (lost) stele composed in the Shaoxing period (1131–1162) 重修木 兰陂记 (Record of the Restoration of the Mulan Weir) by Zheng Qiao 郑樵 (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:18, No. 19); 2) extant stele entitled 李长者传 (Biography of Elder Li), composed in Kaixi 1 (1205) by Lin Dading 林大鼎 (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:32, No. 30); 3) (lost stele) entitled, 协应李长 者庙记 (Record of the Temple to the Li the Elder of Beneficial Assistance), composed in the Xianchun period (1265–1274) by Liu Kezhuang 刘克庄 (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:53, No. 47); 4) (lost stele) entitled 木兰陂 重建协应庙记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Temple of Beneficial Response at the Mulan weir), composed in Zhishun 1 (1330) by Zheng Min 郑旻 (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:65, No. 58; 5) extant stele composed in Zhizheng 6 (1356) by Liu Lirong 刘俚荣 entitled 木兰陂记 (Record of Mulan weir), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:68, No. 60); 6) (lost stele) entitled 协应 庙记 (Record of the Temple of Beneficial Response), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:74, No. 67), composed in Yongle 12 (1414) by Lin Gui 林圭; 7) extant stele entitled 重修木兰陂记 (Inscription on the restoration of the Mulan weir) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:88, No. 81; 7) (lost stele) composed in Jingtai 1 (1450) by Chen Zhong 陈中 entitled 重修协应庙记 (Record of the Restoration of the Temple of Beneficent Response), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:99, No. 89), 8) extant stele composed in Hongzhi 3 (1490) by Zhou Ying 周瑛 entitled 重修木兰陂水利碑记 (Stele recording the repairs to the Mulan weir irrigation system) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:118, No. 104); 9) extant stele composed by Huang Qian 黄谦 in Wanli 8 (1580) entitled 重修木兰陂 隄记 (Record of the renovation of the Mulan weir and dikes) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:178, No. 157); 10) extant stele entitled 重建十四家祖庙记 (Stele on the repairs to the Lady Qian and Fourteen Families Founding Temple), composed by Peng Wen 彭文 in Wanli 21 (1893) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:186, No. 164); 11) extant stele composed in Shunzhi 7 (1660) by Yu Yang 余飏 entitled 重建钱妃暨十四祖庙碑记 (Stele on the repairs to the Lady Qian and Fourteen Families Founding Temple), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:207, No. 181); 12) extant stele composed by Huang Mingjun 黄鸣俊 in Shunzhi 8 (1651) entitled 重修木兰陂南北送水堤并钱李二庙碑 (Stele on the reconstruction of the northern and southern waterways of the Mulan irrigation system and the two temples of (Lady ) Qian and (Elder) Li), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 208, No 182); 13) extant stele entitled 重修 木兰陂记 (Inscription on the restoration of the Mulan weir), composed by Huang Qiyou 黄起有 in Kangxi 6 (1667), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 213, No. 186); 14) extant stele entitled 重修木兰陂堤暨惠济侯李长者庙, 重修 敕封惠烈协顺钱夫人庙碑记 (Stele recounting the restoration of the Mulan weir and canals and the temple of the Elder Li of Gracious Salvation and the reconstruction of the temple of the imperially enfeoffed Gracious, Herioic and Harmonious Lady Qian), by Peng Peng 彭鹏 (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:217, No. 190); 15) extant stele composed in Kangxi 40 (1701) by Peng Peng 彭鹏 entitled 重修木兰陂, 新筑横山堤并修李侯, 钱妃, 冯禅师三庙 碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Mulan weir and the new construction of the ‘cross the mountain conduit’ as well as the repairs to the three temples devoted to Lord Li, Mistress Qing and Chan Master Feng), (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:224, No. 194); 16) extant stele composed in Jiaqing 12 (1807) entitled 重修木兰陂记 (Record of the restoration of the Mulan weir) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:268, No. 233). 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Li 李 and the Shi 施. There are also minor surname groups of Wu 吴 and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Qianfeigong 钱妃宫 was originally called the Zhenhuimiao 贞惠庙, and later the Qianlinggong 钱灵宫. The temple was built during the Northern Song in Yuanfeng 7 (1083). The temple was renovated during the early Ming. In 1967 the temple was demolished, but it was rebuilt in 1985. The main god is Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Secondary gods are Guangping Zhouwang 广平周王 and Taishan Kongwang 泰山孔王. The stone inscription composed in the Xianchun period (1265–1274) by Liu Kezhuang 刘克庄 entitled 协应钱夫人庙记 (Record of the Temple to Lady Qian of Beneficial Assistance) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:54, No. 48) is about this temple (stele no longer extant). 2) Xinglongshê 兴隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Li 李 and the Shi 施 surnames invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their homes to 行道 xingdao, carry out the Dao. On 1/13, the Wu 吴 and the Chen 陈 surnames do the same. On 1/14 the goddess Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 is taken on a procession around the village, and opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. In the evening, there is a lantern procession. These activities are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Guangping Zhouwang 广平周王. 3/13: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Taishan Kongwang 泰山孔王. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V002 Wumen 吴门 1. Village settlement Wumen village is part of the Mulan Administrative Village 木兰行政村. The total population of Wumen is approximately 150 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. Other surnames include the Li 李, Shi 施 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xindunshê 新墩社 was built in the late Qing. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Minganci 明安祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V003 Baiyuling 白玉岭 1. Village settlement Baiyuling was originally known as Baidu 白杜. Baiyuling village is part of the Tieling Administrative Village 铁岭行政村. The total population of Baiyuling is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Mulan zushê 木兰祖社 is co-owned by Tiezao 铁灶. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑. 2) Longtongmiao 龙通庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝: Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Yulingci 玉岭祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, and Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Mulan zushê 木兰 祖社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/24: The birthday celebration of Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝 is organized by the village. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is co-organized with the village of Tiezao 铁灶. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V004 Tiezao 铁灶 1. Village settlement Tiezao village is part of the Tieling Administrative Village 铁岭行政村. The total population of Tiezao is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Ou 欧, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Tiezaojing Mulan zhongshê 铁灶境木兰中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sizhou wenfo 泗洲文佛, Wuhu jiangjun 五虎将军, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Yinnanci 印南祠: The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 3) Yundongyan 云洞岩: The main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Fengbo 风伯, Leigong 雷公, Dianmu 电母, and Yushi 雨师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the gods of Mulan zhongshê 木兰中社 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed, and Three in One scripture masters 经师 conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Mulan zushê 木兰祖社. This celebration is organized together with Baiyuling 白玉岭 village. 9/29: Another birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Mulan zhongshê 木兰中社. This event is organized by Tiezao village as a whole. On these occasions, opera is performed, and, for the most part, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A002 Hengshan sicun (Hengshan four village ritual alliance) 横山四村 The four village alliance of Hengshan is located along the main channel that emerges directly from the Mulan Weir, and was part of the Hengshanpu (police/defense unit) 横山铺 of the Weixinli subcantion 维新里. In the Ming, this area had two villages, Shanghengshan 上横山 and Xiahengshan 下横山. During the Qing, Longqian 龙前 village branched off, and in more recent times (late Qing) Puzi 莆仔 village branched off as well. The Taishimiao 太师庙, located in Longqian 龙前 village, is the main overall temple for four village alliance. The temple was built in the Wanli period (1573–1620), and renovated during the Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣候 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year on lunar 4/26, the Yanggong taishi of the Taishigong is carried in a procession around the four villages of the alliance. During the Song and Ming, both the Huang 黄 of Hengshan 上横山 and the Chen 陈 of Xiahengshan 下横山 both produced Jinshi (Metropolitan Candidates) 进士 and Juren (Provincial Candidates) 举人, becoming the prominent lineages of this area. In Ming Yongle 15 (1417), the Xinghua Prefecture set up a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 commemorative archway in Shanghengshan village in honor of a member of the Huang lineage who had achieved third place (tanhua 探花) in the imperial examinations. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, the Hengshan four village alliance all belonged to the white banner alliance. 
V005 Longqian 龙前 1. Village settlement Longqian is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. The village has a population of over 210 people. Hengshan four village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The Weng 翁 are the main surname group. There are also the Zeng 曾 and Chen 陈 minor surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Taishimiao 太师庙 was built during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), and was renovated during the Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣候 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. 2) Yiquanshê 义全社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Longshouting 龙寿亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Qilongfu 奇龙府: The main god is Wangfu daren 王府大人. Secondary gods include Su da ye 苏大爷. 5) Tongmingdian 通明殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 6) Huanglongfu 黄龙府: The main god is Wangfu daren 黄府大人. 7) Jiulongtan 九龙坛: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 8) Longquan niyuan 龙泉尼院 was originally built in the Song and was rebuilt in 1980 (PTZJZ, 1992:221). The temple preserves a stele composed in 1932 entitled 龙泉院产业碑记 (Stone inscription listing the properties of the Dragon Spring Monastery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:367, No. 332). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Yiquanshê 义全社 are taken on a procession within the entire village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of the Gods 神诞庆典: 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god goes on procession within the village as well as to the villages of Shanghengshan 上横山 and Xiahengshan 下横山, and Puzi 莆仔. These events are organized by Longquan Taishimiao 龙泉太师庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Huangfu daren 黄府大人. 12/25: The birthday celebration of Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣候. Marionette plays are performed. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Puzi 莆仔 1. Village settlement Puzi village is part of the Mulan Administrative Village 木兰行政村. The population of Puzi is over 1000 people 2. Surname groups The Li 李 and the Chen 陈 are the dominant surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Tongying zushê 通应祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daxiong 大兄 and Huye 虎爷. 2) Ruiyunci 瑞云祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 3) Qingfuan 清福庵 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:203) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Tongying zushê 通应祖社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god goes on procession within Puzi village as well as to the villages of Shanghengshan 上横山 and Xiahengshan 下横山, and Longqian 龙前. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Longquan taishimiao 龙泉太师庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/20: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V007 Shanghengshan 上横山 1. Village settlement Shanghengshan is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. Shanghengshan has a population of over 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Zeng 曾. In addition, there are also households of the Ou 欧, Qiu 邱, and the Zheng 郑. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Xipai 西牌, Shangshê 上社, and Xiashê 下社. 3. Village temples 1) Guangyinggong 广应宫, Tongyingshê 通应社 is located in Xipai 西牌. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Shiwuma 十五妈, Liu diye 刘帝爷, Wuhu 五虎, Jin jiangjun 金将军, and Yin jiangjun 银将军. 2) Baofugong 保福宫 is in Shangshê 上社. The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府 大妈. 3) Taipingfu 太平府 is in Shangshê 上社. The main god is Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Yuedimiao 岳帝庙 is in Xiashê 下社. The main god is Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Guangyingong 广应宫 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/28: The birthday celebration of Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 is organized by Xiashê 下社. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god goes on procession within the village and to three other nearby villages. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Longquan taishimiao 龙泉太师庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷 is organized by the village as a whole. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengsheng 福德正神 is organized by Xipai 西牌. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Shangshê 上社. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized by the village as a whole. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Funds are collected on a per capita basis by the village as a whole, or by the neighborhood organizing the event. Xiahengshan 下横山 1. Village settlement The village of Xiahengshan is part of the Xiahengshan Administrative Village 下横山行政村. The village currently has a population of 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Ou 欧, and the Weng 翁. The Chen are part of the Chen of Yuhu 玉湖陈 of Kuokou 阔口 in Chengxiang 城厢. The Chen are divided into four lineage branches: first branch, second branch, third branch, and fourth branch. There were originally two Chen ancestral halls 陈氏祠堂, but only one still exists today. It is said that Hengshan originally had surnames such as the Liu 刘, Zhang 张, Xu 徐, Zhu 朱, but that they all disappeared after the invasion of the pirates during the Jiajing period (1522–1566). There are two long dragon boats maintained by the village for races. 3. Village temples 1) Hongyingshê 通应社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Heyingdong 赫应洞: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Kongfu daren 孔府大人 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅. 3) Ciyungong 慈云宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Dongshanfu 东山府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods includde Liu duxun 刘都巡, Wang junzhu 王郡主, Wang daren 王大 人, Wu zhongjun 武中军, Jin guniang 金姑娘, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. 5) Baoshengyuan 宝胜院 was rebuilt in Guangxu 2 (1876). The main god is Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真 君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Wuhu jiangjun 五虎将军. 6) Longquansi 龙泉寺 was renovated 1932 and in 1993. The main god is Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝, and the eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 go on procession within the village. There are three Fushou selected every year. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. On 2/1, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god is taken on a procession within the village as well as to the villages of Shanghengshan 上横山, Puzi 莆仔 and Longqian 龙前. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Longqian taishimiao 龙前太师庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Ciyundong 慈云洞. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Dongshanfu 东山府. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village or the temple and its community organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A003 Goukou qijing (Goukou sevenfold ritual alliance) 沟口七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Goukou is situated alongside the main channel emerging directly from the side of the Mulan Weir. This area was part of the Shendu Goukoupu (police/defense unit) 深凟沟口铺 and the Henggou Qianhuangpu 横沟前黄铺, both of which were part of the Weixinli subcanton 维新里. The ritual alliance includes Goukou 沟口, Xiaqutou 下渠头 Qiandun 前墩, Zhongdun 中墩, and Houdun 后墩. In the Ming, the villages of Henggou 横沟 and Qianhuang 前黄 were inhabited. In the Qing, the following villages branched off from these settlements: Goukou 沟口, Gouxia 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Qiandun 前墩, Zhongdun 中墩, Houdun 后墩, Qingcha 青垞 and Wangzhuang 王庄, a total of eight villages in all. Wangzhuang 王庄 is now called Yunzhuang 云庄, which was part of the Wangzhuang zhenwei pu 王庄圳尾铺 of Hugongli sub-canton 胡公里, but because the early village settlers were Wangs 王 who were related to and divided off from the Wangs of Qingcha village 青垞王, this village also is part of the Goukou sevenfold ritual alliance 沟口七境. The Xiangshangong 香山宫 temple, located in the village lands of Qingcha 青垞 village, was originally the main temple of the Goutou Thirteen Village alliance 沟头十三乡 as well as being the main temple of the Goukou Goukou sevenfold ritual alliance sevenfold ritual alliance 沟口七境. The main goddess of the temple is Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, with secondary gods Li Zhen 黎畛, Dashi 大使 and Ershi 二使. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival in the first lunar month, each of the villages in the various alliances based in the temple would go to the Xiangshangong temple to invite the god to their village, and on a day determined by divination, would take part in a collective procession around all the villages of the alliance. Currently, Qingcha 青垞, Goukou 沟口, and Yunzhuang 云庄 still go to the Xiangshangong to invite the goddess, but the ritual alliances have not yet revived the general processions and collective rituals. During the Ming and Qing, the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 lineages were prominent lineages with successful examination candidates. In Qianhuang 前黄 there was a Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduate) 进士牌坊 memorial arch, and in Henggou 横沟 there was a Zhenjie (Chaste Widow) 贞节牌坊 memorial arch. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Goukou sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 
V009 Qingcha 青垞 1. Village settlement Qingcha is part of the Qingcha Administrative Village 青垞行政村. The current population is 1500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other sources of income include fruit trees and vegetable farms. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qiaotou 桥头, Sanzuocuo 三座厝 and Zhangcuo 张厝. 2. Surname groups Qiaotou 桥头 has around 150 Chen 陈 households; Sanzuocuo 三座厝 has 120 Wang 王 households, and Zhangcuo 张厝 has around 70 Zhang 张 households. There are also a few Ou 欧, Weng 翁, and Ding 丁 households. The Wang 王氏 of Sanzuocuo 三座厝 of Qingcha 青垞 moved from Xianyou Yunzhuang 仙游云庄 to Qingcha yunzhuang 青垞云 庄 beneath Hugong mountain 壶山. Divided into five branches, there are currently 120 households. There used to be an ancestral hall called Xiqingci 袭庆祠. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangshangong 香山宫 was rebuilt in the 1984. Main altar: Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 (three statues). Left altar: Li Zhen 黎畛. Side altars: Dashi 大使, Ershi 二使. This temple was the main temple of the Xiangshan shisanxiang (Thirteen villages of the Xiang Mountain temple, dedicated to the cult of Lady Qian). It was also the main temple of the Goukou sevenfold ritual alliance 沟口七境. 2) Xiangshanting 香山亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, with Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝 as secondary gods. 3) Qingshantang 庆善堂, locally known as the Xiagong (lower temple) 下宫, is the main temple of Qingcha village 青垞村总宫. The main goddess worshipped is Xuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, with Guanyin dashi 观音大士 as a secondary goddess. 4) Xiyuanshê 西园社 is linked to the Minghemiao 明赫庙. This temple belongs to the Zhang 张. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Dutong shenghou 都统 圣侯. 5) Guolongshê 郭陇社 belongs to the Wang 王. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 6) Gonghuci 共壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–8, the Zhang 张 carry the incense burners of the shê temple to each home to xingdao practice the Dao. Two statues of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 are carried in a procession around the village. Lanterns go on procession around the village boundaries. On 1/9–10 the Chen 陈 do the same. On 1/11–12 the Wang 王 do the same. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13–4/16: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Opera is performed for four days. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 6/15: The birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Guolongshê 郭陇社 is organized by the Wang 王. Marionette plays are performed. 7/19–21: The Chen 陈 organize a pilgrimage to Xiangshangong 香山宫 to invite the goddess Qianshi shengfe 钱氏圣妃 back to the village to watch opera. 8/15: The birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xiyuanshê 西园社 is organized by the Zhang 张. Marionette plays are performed. 
V010 Yunzhuang 云庄 1. Village settlement Yunzhuang is part of the Qingcha Administrative Village 青垞行政村. The village was originally called Wangzhuang 王庄. The entire village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Qiu 邱, Lin 林, Zheng 郑, and Lin 李. There is no main surname. There are close to 100 Christian believers. 3. Village temples 1) Yonganshê 永安社 was originally built during the Ming Dynasty. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 2) Hushangong 壶山宫, Fuxingtang 福兴堂: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣, and Baban 八班. 3) Shunxingting 顺兴亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮 尊天. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Hushangong 壶山宫 and Yonganshê 永安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebrations for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed. All these events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is usually performed, and Daoist rites are held. 
V011 Goukou 沟口 1. Village settlement Goukou is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. Currently, the village has a population of 1300 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. Each year three Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation to manage ritual activities. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Su 苏, Lin 林, and the Xu 许. There are also Huang 黄, Wu 吴, and Yu 俞 minor surname groups in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Honglinshê 洪林社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Secondary gods: Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dashi 大使, and Ershi 二使. 2) Julanting 聚兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Hushanci 壶山祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary god is Master Wu 吴先生. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 –16, the Su 苏, Lin 林 and Xu 许 take turns taking Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Dashi 大使, Ershi 二使, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 on a procession around their own territories. On 1/15, at night, there is a fire walking ceremony in which palm sedan chairs with small versions of the gods are raced across a pile of glowing charcoal and burning logs and straw, and lanterns are lit. On 1/16 at night, three Daoist ritual masters and one drummer are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16–4/16: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. A procession is made to Xiangshangong 香山宫 to carry the goddess back to the village to watch the opera. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wushi xiansheng 吴氏先生 is organized by the Mingdetang 明德堂. Marionette plays are performed. On the larger ritual occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. 
V012 Goudong 沟东 1. Village settlement Goudong village is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. The current population of Goudong village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the single lineage in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Zhengyigong 正一宫 contains the altar of the Fuxing dongshê 福兴东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods are Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao). There is a lantern procession at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed for three days. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V013 Gouxi 沟西 1. Village settlement Gouxi village is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. The current population is 655 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the single lineage in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 contains the altar of the Fuxing xishê 福兴西社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qianshi shenfei 钱氏圣妃. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a lantern procession at night. On 2/28 Toufu 头福 is celebrated, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/2: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 is held with opera. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V014 Qiandun 前敦 1. Village settlement Qiandun village is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. The village population is 509 people. There are 200 Christians in the village. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 is the single lineage in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 contains the altar of the Fuxing qianshê 福兴前社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Caofu jiangjun 曹府 将军, and Xufu daren 徐府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/20 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a lantern procession at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/28: The birthday celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters perform rites. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Caofu jiangjun 曹府将军. Opera is performed. 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V015 Zhongdun 中墩 1. Village settlement Zhudun village is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. The village has a population of approximately 600 people. Each year two shêlu (keepers of the incense burner of the shê altar) are selected in rotation. 2. Surname groups Zhudun has a single lineage, the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Ludungong 卢墩宫 branched off from the Beichengong near Huangshi 北辰宫. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝. Secondary god: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Fuxing zhongshê 福兴中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/28 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Daoist ritual masters hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen is held. Opera is performed. 
V016 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun village is part of the Goukou Administrative Village 沟口行政村. The village has a population of approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the single lineage in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxing shangshê 福兴上社 is connected to the Tiantaigong 天泰宫: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods are Caofu jiangjun 曹府将军 and Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a lantern procession at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/28: The birthday celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. 5/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
A004 Zhengban qijing (Zhengban sevenfold ritual alliance) 郑坂七境 The Zhengban sevenfold ritual alliance is situated along the main channel emerging from the Mulan Weir. This area was part of the Zhengbanpu Zhengban sevenfold ritual alliance (police/defense unit) 郑阪铺 of the Weixinli sub-canton 维新里. In the Ming this area had a village called Zhengban 郑坂. In the Qing this village branched off into the villages of Houmian 后面, Xiwei 西尾, Gouxia 沟下, and Cangtou 苍头. In the late Qing the villages of Dincuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝 and Getou 隔头 branched off. The current population of the alliance is over 5000 people, divided into seven natural villages. The main livelihood is agriculture. The Zhengjueyuan 正觉院 temple, located in Houmian 后面 village, is the main overall temple for the sevenfold alliance 七境总宫. The main gods of the temple are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公 元帅. Secondary gods are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Yuantian shangdi 元天 上帝, Jingang mingwang 金刚明王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jiushu zushi 九树祖师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puan xianshi 普庵仙师, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. Each year there are several days of opera on 2/2 to celebrate Toufu 头福. On 3/3 the celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held, and on 3/23 the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 is held. On 5/5 the celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is held, and on 8/21 the celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and finally on 11/11 the celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. All this ritual activity is organized by the Zhengjueyuan temple management committee and is funded by the people of the seven village alliance. Each year on 6/6, for the celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 the villages of the Zhengban sevenfold ritual alliance all perform opera for over ten days, and sacrifice over 100 rams. The Liao 廖, Xu 许, Zeng 曾 and Lin 林 of Zhengban were local prominent lineages with many successful examination candidates. In Ming Chenghua 13 (1477), a Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Metropolitan Candidate memorial archway 进士”牌坊 for Liao Dezheng 廖德征 in this area. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Zhengban sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 
V017 Houmian 后面 1. Village settlement Houmian village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. The village has a population of approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. There are also three Zheng 郑 households and one Liu 留 household. The Chen of Houmian came from the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. During the late-Southern Song, the Chen of Kuokou fled everywhere when the Yuan armies invaded Xinghua 兴化. They are the descendants of the fourth generation grandsons of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. 3. Village temples 1) Tingyangjing Xianwei shushê 汀洋境显威书社, Zhaoling gong 昭灵宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Chen wenlong 陈文龙. 2) Zhengjueyuan 正觉院: (the main overall temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance described above) 3) Zhengyiyuan 正一院 is dedicated to Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯. 4) Longjinmiao 龙津庙 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5) Laishuiting 来水亭 was renovated in 1984, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Left altar: Weituo 书驮, and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers go to the Zhengjueyuan 正觉院 to invite Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 go on a procession within the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/17: The birthday celebration of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Note: the sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhengban hosts a grand birthday celebration of Tudigong 土地公 on 6/6. There are ten days of opera and seven days of movies. 10/29: Laishuiting 来水亭 hosts the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance every year. Marionette plays are performed. 
V018 Dingcuo 顶厝 1. Village settlement Dingcuo village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. The village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. There are also ten Lin 林 households, ten Xiao 肖 households, and two Liu 刘 households. The Wu of Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝 came from Huangshi Shujie 黄石 书街. They are the descendants of the founding ancestor Wu Ji 始祖吴祭 of Shuinan 水南 (Huangshi). Their ancestral tombs are near the Chongxingsi 重兴寺. 3. Village temples 1) Qingxintang 清心堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Lifu zhongjun 李府中军. 2) Qingyitang 清一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 3) Dongshuiting 东水亭 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4) Fuxing temple 福兴寺 was built during the Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:221). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Lifu zhongjun 李府中军 are invited to go on procession within the village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. They then do the same in Xiacuo 下厝 village. At night there is a procession of lanterns. Late in the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Toufu 头福 is celebrated by inviting the spirit mediums of Tiangong yuanshui to chonghua 冲花 (stand bare-chested in the flames of a massive Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. 
V019 Xiacuo 下厝 1. Village settlement Xiacuo village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. The village has over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. They are related to the Wu of Dingcuo 顶厝. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxing beishê 永兴北社 is co-owned by Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacu 下厝. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝, and Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, villagers from Xiacuo 下厝 together with villagers from Dingcuo 顶厝 take Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 and Lifu zhongjun 李府中军 on a procession around the two villages to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. At night there is a procession of lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/28: The birthday celebration of Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 is held with opera performances. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera performances. 
V020 Gouxia 沟下 1. Village settlement Gouxia village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. The village has approximately 800 people. The village is also known as Xiafucun 下府村. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Lin 林. There are also ten Zhou 周 households. Both the Lin and the Zhou are immigrants from Minnan 闽南 areas. 3. Village temples 1) Baofushê 保福社, Baofu dongshê 保福东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Xue daren 薛大人, Qingcha wang 青垞王 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君). 2) Zhengjueyuan 正觉院 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhou 周 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Lin 林 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/8: The celebration of Xu daren 徐大人 is held with opera performances. 
V021 Xiwei 西尾 1. Village settlement Xiwei village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. The village has a population of approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Yonganshê 永安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 villagers take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: Birthday celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Opera is performed. 5/19: Birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera performed. 
V022 Cangtou 苍头 1. Village settlement Cangtou village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. Cangtou has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liao 廖. There are also ten Fu 傅 households. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxing shangshê 永兴上社, Baiyungong 白云宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 villagers take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/4: Birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V023 Getou 隔头 1. Village settlement Getou village is also known as Qiaozitou 桥仔头. Getou is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. Getou has a population of over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Yongxing beishê 永兴北社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃 and Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 迦罗, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and the shêlu 社炉 (incense burners of the shê altar) are invited to go on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/19: Birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
A005 Hutang wucun (Hutang five village alliance) 壶塘五村 The Hutang five village ritual alliance is situated in between the main channel descending directly from the Mulan Weir on the one side, and the Shagouyang 沙沟洋大沟 main channel on the other. This area once belonged to the Tangdong Houliaopu 塘东后廖舖 and the Hutangpu 壶塘舖 (police/ defense units) of the Weixinli 维新里 sub-canton. In the Ming this area included the three villages of Guitang 龟塘 (Hutang 壶塘 and Nanhutang 南壶塘), Tangdong 塘东, and Houliao 后廖. In the Qing these villages divided off into Qutou 渠头 and Dongting 东亭 villages. Currently there are five natural villages in the alliance. The Huaizhongtang 怀忠堂, located in Nanwutang village, was first built in the Ming, and was rebuilt in Qianlong 10 (1745) and again in 1985. The temple is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wutang five village ritual alliance and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Secondary gods include Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Formerly the five villages of the alliance held a collective procession of the gods of this temple, but these collective rites have not yet been revived. The Tang 唐氏, Chen 陈氏, Liao 廖氏, and Dai 戴氏 were prominent lineages of this area with many successful examination candidates. Hutang 壶塘 produced five jinshi 进士 in the Ming and eleven juren 举人, while Tangdong 塘东 produced two jinshi 进士 and one juren 举人. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Hutang five village alliance were all members of the black banner alliance. 
V024 Nanwutang 南梧塘 1. Village settlement Nanwutang is also known as Guitang 龟塘 or Hutang 壶塘. It is claimed that the village existed already during the Tang Dynasty. The current population of Nanwutang is 2400 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. Nanwutang is divided into three neighborhoods called Yangzhong 洋中, Tangjing 唐境, and Hougou 后沟. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Tang 唐 and the Chen 陈. Each surname group has about 1000 people. There are also five or six Liao 廖 households and one Liu 刘 household. The Chen are the descendants of Grand Preceptor and Grand Guardian, Governor of Huizhou Chen Yanhui’s 明太师太保徽州府知府陈彦慧. 3. Village temples 1) Huaizhongtang 怀忠堂, first built in the Ming, was rebuilt in Qianlong 10 (1745) and again in 1985. Inscriptions on the rafters mention the contributions of the descendants of Chen Yanhui 陈彦慧 and another local jinshi (Metropolitan Graduate) surrnamed Tang 唐. The temple is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Left altar: Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Tiaogengshê 调羹社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 (main altar). Right altar: Zhenggong sheren 郑公舍人. 3) Qinglanci 庆兰祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Yangzhong 洋中 (the Chen 陈氏) invites Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/13 Tangjing 唐境 (belonging to the Tang 唐氏) invites Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/15 Hougou 后沟 invites Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 to go on procession within its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/12: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3/13: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 6/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. (Opera is performed according to neighborhoods. Each time, opera is performed for two days.) 
V025 Xiaqutou 下渠头 1. Village settlement Xiaqutou village is administered by the Quqiao Administrative Village 渠桥行政村. The village has approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, especially growing mushrooms. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Liu 刘. There are also three Fu 扶 households. The founding ancestor of the Liu originally cultivated trees in Lingchuan 灵川. Later, the ancestor came to Nanwutang 南梧塘 to look after fields for wealthy people. Four sons were born to him, and three lineage branches have continued on to today, for eleven generations. The Liu lineage ancestral hall is in Baowei in Hanjiang 涵江保尾刘氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Huizhongtang 回中堂 contains the altar of the Tiaogengshê 调羹社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qianshi xianfei 钱氏仙妃. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/7: Qianshi shengfei 钱氏仙妃 goes on procession within the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏仙妃. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Every year, opera is performed twice in the village. Zhu Guangdi 朱光地, a Singaporean Chinese, donated the funds to cover the cost of the performances and the construction of the stage. 60–70% of the villagers believe in Christianity. A Christian fellowship is currently being organized. Dongting 东亭 1. Village settlement Dongting village is part of the Nanwutang Administrative Village 南梧塘行政村. The population of Dongting is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples Longxinggong 龙兴宫 contains the altar of the Longxingshê 龙兴社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, and Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 villagers carry Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 to each house to xingdo 行道 practice the Dao, making a tour of the entire village. At night there is a lantern procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. 3/9: The celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters may be invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V027 Tangdong 塘东 1. Village settlement Tangdong village is part of the Dongba Administrative Village 东坝行政村. The population of Tangdong village is over 600 people. The main source of livelihood is agriculture. Each year three Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to organize the annual village rituals. 2. Surname groups The Dai 戴 is the main surname in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Tianshudian 天枢殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Tangdong lishê 塘东里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhongtian dashen 中天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大帝, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–12 the villagers take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/11: The celebration of Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃. 5/18: The celebration of Wang Lingguan 王灵官. Marionette plays are performed. 6/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 
V028 Houliao 后廖 1. Village settlement Houliao village is part of the Zhengban Administrative Village 郑阪行政村. The village has a population of approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Liao 廖 and the Qiu 邱. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈. The Liao claim to be the descendants of the Qing imperial censor Liao Biqi 廖必琦. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaokang zushê 赵坑祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, and Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 2) Fuxingsi 福星寺 was originally known as the Guishansi 龟山祖寺. The monastery is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼 and preserves an inscription from 1945. 3) Jinhuagong 金华宫 belongs to the Liao 廖, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4) Juyingtang 聚应堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 5) Houliaosi 后廖寺 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:221). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Liao 廖 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Chen 陈. 3/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/28: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is organized by the 陈. The celebration of Cigan xianfe 慈感仙妃 is organized by the Qiu 邱. The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the village as a whole. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Qiu 邱. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is organized by the village as a whole. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters may be invited to conduct rites. Funding is raised on a per capita basis by the organizing group, whether it be the village as a whole, or a particular lineage group. 4/12: 6/19:Jindun qijing (Jindun sevenfold ritual alliance) 锦墩七境 The Jindun sevenfold ritual alliance is located alongside the Shagouyang main channel 沙沟洋大沟 of the Mulan irrigation system. This region was part of the Jindunpu 锦墩铺 (defense/police unit) of Hugongli 胡公里 subcanton. In the Ming, Guandun village 管墩村 in this area was part of Weixinli 维新里 sub-canton. But in the Qing, this village was divided into the two villages of Jindun 锦墩 and Guandun 官墩, and their affiliation was changed to that of Hugongli 胡公里 sub-canton. Currently the area is made up of eight natural villages: Xiadun 下墩, Quqiao 渠桥, Dongling 东岭, Tangbian 塘边, Dubian 度边, Xiangkou 巷口, Houting 后亭 and Zhenwei 圳尾. The current population of this area is over 7000 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. The main surname groups in the region are the Chen 陈 and the Fu 扶. The Chen 陈氏 claim to have originated from Gushi county 固始县 of the Henan province 河南. There originally was a Yingchuan Chen family temple 颖川陈氏家庙 in the village. It is said that one Chen Ren 陈仁 from this village held the position of Chief Secretary of Yunnan Province 云南布政司 during the Ming Dynasty. The Fu 扶 claim to have originated from Fujiacun 扶家村 of Daxinzhuang 大心庄 in Qufu county 曲阜县 of Shandong province 山东. During the Ming Dynasty, their hometown was flooded and the Fu first fled by sea to Dongfen village 东汾村 in Lingchuan 灵川 township, Putian county 莆田县, then later settled in Xiadun village 下墩 of the Jindun 锦墩 village alliance. The Jingzhao Fu 京兆扶 in Xiadun village have an ancestral hall called Shangdeci 尚德祠. The Fu lineage is divided into two branches: Qianfu 前扶 and Houfu 后扶. The Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社 and the associated Chongfuyuan 崇福院, located in Dongling 东岭 village, is the main overall temple of the seven village alliance 七境总宫, while at the same time being the founding shê templeJindun sevenfold ritual alliance of villages of Jindun 锦墩, Yangwei 洋尾, and Xidong 溪东. The temple was built in Ming Longqing 1 (1567), and then was rebuilt in Qianlong 18 (1753), Guangxu 18 (1892 ) and again in 1983. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (that is Ciji zhenjum 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公 元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, and Tugong yuanshuai 屠公元帅). Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Zhongjun 中军. Each year on 1/15 the temple holds a general Yuanxiao celebration 总元宵 in which Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is taken on a procession through the seven villages of the alliance, and lantern processions trace the boundaries of the villages. On 1/30 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is taken on a procession through the seven alliance villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Jindun sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 
V029 Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement Xiadun village is part of the Jindun Administrative Village 锦墩行政村. The village has a population of approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups There are approximately 150 Fu 扶 households, 120 Chen 陈 households, 40 Xie 谢 households, 20 Liao 廖 households, and 10 Tian 田 households in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Yongfutang 永福堂 (commonly referred to as Liushuaifu 刘帅府) is co-owned with Quqiao village 渠桥村. The main god is Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Yuanyingmiao 元应庙 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, supported by Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Jihuci 集壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Fuyi xiansheng 扶易先生. There are 100 initiates according to SJCDCB, 1992:16. 4) Xishantang 西山堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. There are 106 initiates according to SJCDCB, 1992:16. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/15 the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. There are four Fushou 福首 selected. Three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 10/29: Jihuci 集壶祠 holds the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance. 
V030 Quqiao 渠桥 1. Village settlement Quqiao village is part of the Quqiao Administrative Village 渠桥行政村. The village was originally was part of Xiadun 下墩 village, but later branched off. The current population is more than 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The Chen 陈 originated from Kuokou 阔口, and moved from Xiadun 下墩 of the Jindun village alliance 锦墩 during the Qianlong period (1736–1795). Their lineage genealogy was lost. There used to be an ancestral hall called Guangyutang 光裕堂, but it was destroyed in 1958. 3. Village temples 1) Shuijing gong 水晶宫 was rebuilt in 1988. The main goddess is Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Left altar: Taishan kangwang 泰山 康王. Right altar: Kongming zhouwang 孔明周王. 2) Pinghuci 屏壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, with Sima shengwang 司马圣王 as a secondary deity. 3) Mituoan 弥陀庵 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:220) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 Quqiao village goes to Xiadun 下墩 to invite Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 back to their own village to go on a procession there. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of the seven village alliance. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Opera is performed. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed. 
V031 Dongling 东岭 1. Village settlement Dongling village is part of the Jindun Administrative Village 锦墩行政村. Dongling has approximately 1100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. There are also two Cai 蔡 households. 3. Village temples 1) Hushanjing Chongfuyuan 壶山境崇福院 and the Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社: (see description above as the main overall temple of the seven village alliance). 2) Lufu 鲁府: Main gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Dongling village, together with Dubian 度边 and Tangbian 塘边, invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on a procession through their villages. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of the seven village alliance. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. This event is held with Dubian 度边 and Tangbian 塘边 villages. On these occasions, opera is performed, and in some cases Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V032 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement Tangbian village is part of the Jindun Administrative Village 锦墩行政村. The village has approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The single lineage in the village is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Juyundian 聚云殿 and its Tianxianfu 天仙府 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. The secondary gods are Lida tianwang 李大天王, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Heiya jiangjun 黑牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/10: the gods of the village temple are taken on a procession. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of the seven village alliance. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is held. 
V033 Dubian 度边 1. Village settlement Dubian village is part of the Jindun Administrative Village 锦墩行政村. The village has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The majority of the people are of the Chen 陈 surname group. There are also ten Lin 林 households. 3. Village temples 1) Lingyoumiao 灵佑庙: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Xiao daoren 肖道人, Ni daoren 倪道人, Chang jiangjun 常将军, Yue jiangjun 岳将军, Chenlin jiangjun 陈琳 将军, Ziqian jiangjun 紫乾将军, Mengliang 孟良, and Jiaozan 焦赞. 2) Shixi gumiao 狮西古庙 is also known as Dagedong 大哥洞. The main god is Wuxiong 五兄. Secondary gods include Lidaren 李大人 and Baodaren 鲍大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Dubian village joins with Dongling 东岭 and Tangbian 塘边 to take Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession throughout their three villages. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of the seven village alliance. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. This is held together with Dongling 东岭 and Tangbian 塘边. 9/12: The birthday celebration of the Wuxiong 五兄. Opera is performed for over ten days. 
V034 Xiangkou 巷口 1. Village settlement Xiangkou village is part of the Jindun Administrative Village 锦墩行政村. The village has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The majority of the villagers are of the Chen 陈 surname group. There are also three Pan 潘 households and three Zhuang 庄 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jinhuci 锦壶祠is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教 主. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗, Huangfu daren 黄府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童 and Cao jiangjun 曹将军. 2) Hankoumiao 汉口庙 is dedicated to Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 3) Xishan ci 西山祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the villagers go to the main temple to invite Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 to go on a procession through the village. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of the seven village alliance. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Two “men of good fortune” (fushou 福首) are selected each year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 
V035 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting village is part of the Jindun Administrative Village 锦墩行政村. Houting has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Wu 吴, Su 苏, and Deng 邓. 3. Village temples 1) Gonglin xishê 拱林西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhenggong dudu 郑公都督. Secondary gods include Xinghua chenghuang 兴化城隍, Cigan xianfei 慈感 仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Xufu daren 徐府大人 (Dage 大哥). 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Gou yuanshuai 苟元帅, Bi yuanshuai 毕元帅, Leibu zunshen 雷部尊神, and Shandian shengmu 闪电圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of the seven village alliance. On 1/30 Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Marionette plays are performed. 9/12: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人. 
V036 Zhenwei 圳尾 1. Village settlement Zhenwei village is part of the Quqiao Administrative Village 渠桥行政村. The village has a population of approximately 300 people. The stone inscription composed in Shaoxing 1 (1131) by Fu Chou 傅丑 entitled 显应侯庙记 (Record of the temple to the Marquis of Manifest Response) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:10, No. 12) was about a temple that was in this village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林 and the Zhang 张. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Renshoushê 仁寿社, Renfushê 仁福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Pingtaici 屏台祠: The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, and Lao zi 老子. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the gods of Renshoushê 仁寿社 and Renfushê 仁福社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/15, the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao festival总元宵 of the Jindun 锦墩七境 seven village alliance, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is invited to go on procession. On 1/30, Toufu 头福 is celebrated by taking part in the procession of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to the seven villages of the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
A007 Xidong sancun (Xidong three village ritual alliance) 溪东三村 The Xidong three village alliance is located alongside the Shagouyang 沙沟洋 main channel of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. These villages originally were part of the Yangwei xidong dongfenpu 洋尾溪东东汾舖 (police/ defense unit) of the Hugongli 胡公里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the two villages of Yangwei 洋尾 and Xidong 溪东. In the Qing, Dongfen 东汾 (Dongba 东坝) village divided off from them and became a separate settlement. The Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社, located in Xidong 溪东 village, is the founding shê temple of the three village alliance 三村祖社. Each year during the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) at the start of the second lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 Xidong three village alliance 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession through the three villages of Yangwei 洋尾, Xidong 溪东 and Dongba 东坝. In the ninth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, a celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and the three villages sponsor the event together. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Xidong three village ritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance. 
V037 Yangwei 洋尾 1. Village settlement Yangwei village is part of the Xidong Administrative Village 溪东行政村. Yangwei has approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. There are also Chen 陈, Lin 林 and other surnames in the village. The Yangmei citang 杨美祠堂 (ancestral hall) is jointly worshipped in by eighteen different surnames. Yangwei is divided into two neighborhoods called Houcuo 后厝 and Weicuo 尾厝. Each year each neighborhood selects nine Fushou 福首 by rotation. 3. Village temples 1) Gonglin dongshê 拱林东社, Qinghuyuan 清壶院 was built in Qianlong 18 (1753). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统, Qiu dutong 邱都统, Liu dutong 刘都统, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Tianshangong 天山宫 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 3) Mingxintang 明馨堂 and Liaokexuan 聊可轩 is in Houcuo 后厝 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人and Jinfu daren 金府大人. 4) Qinghuci 清壶祠 is in Weicuo 尾厝. This temple has over eighty initiates 门人. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 5) Mingsantang 明三堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 800 initiates are claimed in SJCDCB, 1992:17. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Weicuo 尾厝 takes the gods of Gonglin dongshê 拱林东社 and Qinghuyuan 清壶院 on a procession around the village. On 1/14–15 Houcuo 后厝 takes the gods of Gonglin dongshê 拱林东社 and Qinghuyuan 清壶院 on a procession around the village. On 2/2, the celebration of Toufu 头福, divination blocks are cast to determine the day on which the gods of Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社 will be taken on a procession through the three-fold village ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/16: The birthday celebration of Jinfu daren 金府大人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Marionette plays are performed. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 11/22: The birthday celebration of Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the threefold village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/22: The birthday celebration of Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统. On most of these occasions opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized primarily by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V038 Xidong 溪东 1. Village settlement Xidong village is part of the Xidong Administrative Village 溪东行政村. The entire village has approximately 800 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Dai 戴, the Zhang 张, and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Gonglin zushê 拱林祖社 is shared by Jingdun 锦墩, Xidong 溪东, and Dongba 东坝. The temple has been recently reconstructed. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Yulinjing Yinghuyuan 玉林境瑛壶院, Gonglin qianshê 拱林前社, Gonglin houshê 拱林后社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Jintong 金童, and Yunü 玉女. 3) Yuxici 玉溪祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Yuquansi 玉泉寺 was built in the Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burner of the shê altar is taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/16 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held and Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 is taken on a procession through the village. In the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession through this village and through the villages of Jindun 锦墩, Yangwei 洋尾 and Dongba 东坝. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for three days. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Opera is performed. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters may be invited to conduct rites. The village organizes these events as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V039 Dongba 东坝 1. Village settlement Dongba village was originally called Dongfen 东汾. Dongba is part of the Dongba Administrative Village 东坝行政村. Dongba is divided into four neighborhoods: Xinxing 新兴, Lianfa 连发, Hou menli 后门里 and Meilan 美兰. The population is approximately 1400 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. There is also duck breeding and poultry raising. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There are also twenty Huang 黄 households, twenty Gu 顾 households, one Zhuo 卓and one Zhang 张 household. The Lin claim to have originated from Hui county 辉县 in Henan province 河南. In the past, the village had a Lin ancestral hall 林氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Dongfenjing 东汾境 Muhuagong 木华宫, Yingxing lishê 应兴里社: The main gods are: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Yangzici 仰紫祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 3) Yunlouan 云楼庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lüma 吕妈, and Xiangu 仙姑 are taken on a procession around the village. Lanterns go on procession around its territory. On 1/23, on the last night of Yuanxiao 末夜元宵, candles are lit 点喜蜡, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are sometimes invited to conduct rites. Funding is raised on a per capita basis by the village as a whole. 
A008 Xinxi sancun (Xinxi three village ritual alliance) 新溪三村 The Xinxi 新溪 three village alliance is located between the Shagouyang 沙沟洋 and the Xingou 新沟 main channels of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. This area was part of the Xiquantoupu 溪泉头铺 and the Chengchongxipu 澄冲溪铺 (police/defense unit) of Hugongli 胡公里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area contained the village of Chongxi 冲溪 (Xiquantou 溪泉头). In the Qing, the village of Shuangshê 双社 (Sanshê 三社) branched off. The village of Daili 埭里, which originally belonged to the Yanxingli 北洋延兴里 sub-canton of the northern irrigated plain, became part of the southern irrigated plain when the Mulan river changed its course in the Qing. This village dug an irrigation canal linking it to Chongxi 冲溪, and so came to be a dependent village of Xinxi 新溪. The Shaoxing lishê 绍兴里社, located in Xiaqiao of Xiquantou 溪泉头 村下桥, is the founding shê temple of the three village ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Formerly, during the Yuanxiao festival a collective procession and ritual was held by all three villages, but this has not yet been revived. Xinxi three village alliance The Wang surname group 王 of this area was a prominent lineage with successful examination candidates. In Ming Zhengtong 2 (1437), the Xinghua Magistrate set up a Zhoujin 昼锦牌坊 memorial archway to commemorate a Wang lineage member who had retired from office as Prefect of Yunnan 云南. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Xidong three village ritual alliance were all members of the red banner alliance. 
V040 Xiquantou 溪泉头 1. Village settlement Xiquantou was originally called Chongxi 冲溪. Xiquantou is part of the Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. Xiquantou village has a population of 335 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. There are also the minor surname groups Yang 杨, Lin 林, He 何, Fang 方, and Zhu 朱. The village is divided into the two neighborhoods of Dingqiao 顶桥 and Xiaqiao 下桥. 3. Village temples 1) Shaoxing lishê 绍兴里社 is located in Xiaqiao 下桥. Main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. This is the main temple of the Xidong three village ritual alliance. 2) Xianyingtan 显应坛, Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Huban daye 虎班大神. 3) Longxitang 龙溪堂 is located in Xiaqiao 下桥. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and the secondary gods are as follows: Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 179 initiates are claimed in SJCDCB, 1992:5. 4) Longxingshê 隆兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Longxingci 龙兴祠 is located in Dingqiao 顶桥: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Baihaoan 白毫庵 was rebuilt in 1958. (PTZJZ, 1992:199) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Shaoxing lishê 绍兴 里社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 1/18 the gods of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社 are taken on procession around the village. These events are organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. On these days opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Xiaqiao 下桥. 3/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shaoxing lishê 绍兴里社 is organized by Xiaqiao 下桥. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社is organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by Dingqiao 顶桥. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. The village as a whole, or a particular temple and it’s community or lineage group organizes the event. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V041 Sanshê 三社 1. Village settlement Sanshê is part of the Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. Sanshê village has a population of 455 people. Each year two shêlu 社炉 (keepers of the incense burners) are selected by rotation to manage the village rituals. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Wang 王, and Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxing zhongshê 永兴中社 Yanxitang 燕禧堂: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 (Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈). Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Wanlinggong 万灵宫: The main god is Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Yongxing zhongshê 永兴中社are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V042 Daili 埭里 1. Village settlement Daili originally was part of the Yanxingli 延兴里 sub-canton in the Beiyang 北洋 northern irrigated plain (north of the Mulan river) until the course of the river altered and it became part of the southern irrigated plain. In Daoguang 2 (1822), together with Gushan 古山 village, the villagers dug an irrigation canal to link with the irrigation system at Xinxi 新溪 village. Daili has a population of approximately 1100 people. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to direct the ritual celebrations of the year. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yu 俞 and the Wu 吴. There are also the Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, Weng 翁, and Li 李 minor surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xingshangong 兴山宫 is dedicated to Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wanggong daren 王公大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅, Bai daren 白大人, Lin daren 林大人, Huang daren 黄大人, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Baofushê 保福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods are Jianggong zhizun 江公至尊, Baifu daren 白府大人 and Huangfu daren 黄府大人. 3) Sanguantang 三官堂: The main god is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 4) Guilinci 桂林祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhang Sanfen 张三峰, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春, Weng Wudao 翁悟道 and Lin Zhenming 林贞明. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 lists 62 initiates. 5) Yinglingtang 应林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 lists 54 initiates. 6) Qingde’an 清德庵 was rebuilt in 1931. (PTZJZCG, 1992:205) 7) Mingde’an 明德庵 was built in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:205) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the incense burners of Baofushê 保福社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/24, the final evening of Yuanxiao 末晚元宵 is celebrated. The gods of Xingshangong 兴山宫 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Guilinci 桂林祠. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event (unless otherwise specified) and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A009 Buyun ershê (Buyun two shê ritual alliance) 步云二社 The two shê alliance of the natural village of Buyun 步云二社 village is located between the Luowai 罗外 and the Xingou 新沟 main channels of the Mulan irrigation system. The village was part of the Buyunpu 步云舖 (police/defense unit) of Hugongli 胡公里 sub-canton. This region in the Ming had the village of Caoxiedun 草鞋墩 which was part of Nanlili 南力里 sub-canton. In the Qing the village of Buyun shushê 步云书社 branched off and the region was re-assigned to Hugongli 胡公里 sub-canton. In Ming Chenghua 3 (1467), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Jinshi memorial archway 进士坊 in Caoxiedun 草鞋墩 in honor of local resident Chen Ting 陈亭. 
V043 Buyun 步云 1. Village settlement Buyun natural village is managed by the Buyun Administrative Village 步云行政村. The village is divided into the two neighborhoods of Dingdonglu 顶东路 and Xiadonglu 下东路, each with their own shê altars (see below). The population of Buyun village is approximately 1300 people. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation to organize the ritual activities of the year. 2. Surname groups There are six surname groups. The main surname groups are the Fang 方 and the Lin 林. There are also the following minor surname groups: the Wu 吴, Peng 彭 and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Buyun gong 步云宫, Buyun shushê 步云书社: The main god is Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. Buyun two shê alliance 2) Yingxing dongshê 应兴东社: The main god are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Daxiong 大兄. 3) Ruiyuntang 瑞云堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Chensheng faye 陈胜法爷, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 a lantern procession is held around the village boundaries. On 2/1 Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 goes on procession around the village. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes these events and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera is performed. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Opera is performed. 6/29: The birthday celebration of Chensheng faye 陈胜法爷. Opera is performed. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/27: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. On all these occasions, the village as a whole organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A010 Baicheng qijing (Baicheng sevenfold ritual alliance) 白埕七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Baicheng is located along the Xingou main channel 新沟 of the Mulan irrigation system, which was dug in the Ming Chenghua period (1465–1487). This area was part of the Donghupu 东湖铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanli sub-canton 南力里. In the Ming, this area had the village of Baicheng 白埕. In the Qing the following villages branched off: Qianmian 前面, Qubian 屈边, Puwei 埔尾, and Houdai 后埭. In the late Qing, the following villages branched off: Yuanding 园顶, and Houshê 后社. Baicheng sevenfold ritual alliance Dejitang 德济堂 temple, located in Baicheng 白埕, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Wufushê 五福社, located in Qianmian 前面 village, is the ancestral shê-altar for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance goes on procession to the main temple and the ancestral shê-altar to worship the gods. This is locally known as “going back home to visit one’s mother” 走娘家. 
V044 Baicheng 白埕 1. Village settlement Baicheng is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Baicheng village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Gong 龚 and the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Baichengjing Dejitang 白埕境德济堂 is also called the Zhanggonggong 张公宫. This is the main temple for the village ritual alliance. The temple is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods are Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Lishan laomu 李山老母 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Baoyishê 宝义社 is also known as Donghushê 东湖社. This temple branched off from the Wufushê 五福社 in the Qing dynasty. The main god are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Wanlingdong 万灵洞 is dedicated to Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 4) Baoandong 保安洞 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 5) Yutangci 玉堂祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Gong 龚 take the incense burners of the shê altar to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Yu 俞 take the incense burners of the shê altar to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/20 a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Qianmian 前面 1. Village settlement Qianmian is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Qianmian village currently has 363 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Peng 彭. Other surnames include the Wang 王 and the Li 黎. 3. Village temples 1) Wufushê 五福社 was built in the Xianfeng period (1851–1861) and was rebuilt and expanded in 2002. The temple was originally the ancestral shê altar of the Baicheng village alliance (Baicheng zushê 白埕祖社). In the late Qing the altars were divided up, but the altar was later restored to Qianmian village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 2) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers carry Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That evening a lantern procession moves along the village boundaries. On 1/22 the general Yuanxiao celebration is held. This used to be a joint celebration by the five village alliance, but now is celebrated only by Qianmian village itself. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/1–3: the celebration of Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君 is held with opera. 7/19–20: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Dejitang 德济堂. The god is invited to watch opera. 8/1: The celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 is held with opera. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V046 Qubian 屈边 1. Village settlement Qubian is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Qubian village currently has 263 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Gaoyishê 高义社 is co-owned with Houshê 后社, both villages taking turns every year. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公 元帅. 2) Jindetang 进德堂 was built in Tongzhi 5 (1866), restored in 1978, and moved and rebuilt in 2000. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Secondary gods are Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera, in rotation with Houshê 后社 village. 7/18: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera. 
V047 Houshê 后社 1. Village settlement Houshê is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Houshê village currently has 320 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qingyuandian 清源殿 was founded in the early Qing and rebuilt in Guangxu wuxu (1898) and repaired in 1961, and then moved and rebuilt in 2000. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The secondary gods are Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 2) Zhulinci 柱林祠, Gaoyishê 高义社 is co-owned with Houdai 后埭, Yuanding 园顶, and Qubian 屈边 villages. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Daxiong 大兄. 3) Dutiandong 都天洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with Houdai 后埭, Yuanding 园顶, and Qubian 屈边 villages. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyijiao 三一教主 is organized in rotation with Houdai 后埭, Yuanding 园顶, and Qubian 屈边. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with opera. 
V048 Houdai 后埭 1. Village settlement Houdai is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Houdai village currently has 126 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples 1) Baiyutang 白玉堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 2) Zhulinci 柱林祠, Gaoyi shushê 高义书社 is co-owned with Yuanding 园顶, and Qubian 屈边. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Daxiong 大兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with Yuanding 园顶. 5/13: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is held with opera. This event is co-organized and co-sponsored (on a per capita basis) with Yuanding 园顶 village. 
V049 Yuanding 园顶 1. Village settlement Yuanding is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Yuanding village currently has 212 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Yanqingshê 延庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xianggu 太乙仙姑, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lisan furen 李三夫人 and Fandaren 范大人. 2) Qingbeidian 清北殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3) Hexingdong 合兴洞 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods are Cui daren 崔大人, Li daren 李大人, and Wang daren 王大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 villagers carry Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Marionette plays are performed. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held with two days of opera. 
V050 Puwei 浦尾 1. Village settlement Puwei is part of the Baicheng Administrative Village 白埕行政村. Puwei village currently has more than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Yanqingshê 延庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Donglaigong 东来宫 is dedicated to Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The god is invited from the Dejitang 德济堂 to watch opera in the village. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 
A011 Zhangjiang bashê (Zhangjiang eight shê ritual alliance) 章江八社 The eight shê alliance of Zhangjiang is located in between the Luowai 罗外 main channel and the main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门 of the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Zhanjiangpu 樟江铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanlili 南力里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area contained the two villages of Zhangyu tougang 章鱼头港 and Houkou 涵口. In the Qing the following villages branched off: Gangli 港利, Xicuo 西厝, Houzhou 后周, Houpeng 后彭, Beicuo 北厝, and Weicuo 尾 厝. In the late Qing the following villages branched off: Qianhu 前湖, Houhu 后湖 and Huibi 灰壁. This area is locally referred to as the Eighteen Mounds of Gangli 港利十八墩. Currently these villages belong to the two Administrative Villages of Gangli 港利 and Gangxi 港西二行政. The overall population of these villages is over 3400 people. The main surname groups of the ritual alliance are the Peng 彭 and the Zhou 周. The Peng have approximately 2000 people. Their lineage genealogy still exists, as does their lineage ancestral hall. It is said that the Peng of Putian 莆田 developed into other areas from Hankou 涵口 of Gangli 港利. The Peng of Tongan 同安彭, Hengtang 横塘 of Huangshi 黄石 and Nanzhi 南枝 (Zhangzhen 张镇) of Chengxiang 城厢 all recognize this area as their Fujian point of origin. Their distinguished ancestor Peng Shao 彭韶, received Zhangjiang eight shê ritual alliance his jinshi 进士 Metropolitan graduate degree in Ming Tianshun 1 (1457), and rose to the position of Minister of Justice 刑部尚书. He was granted the posthumous title of Huian 惠安 and his tomb is located in Shuanghu 双浒. In Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Dasikou 大司寇牌坊 memorial archway in honor of Peng Shao and in Ming Hongzhi 7 (1494), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Shike 世科牌坊 (generations of successful examination graduates) memorial archway for Peng Shao and his son. Another renowned ancestor from the area was Peng Peng 彭鹏, a Qing Shunzhi period (1644–1661) Juren 举人 Provincial Graduate who was made Governor of Guangdong 广东巡抚. The Zhou currently have some 500 people in this area. In the Ming, this lineage produced seven Jinshi Metropolitan Graduates. In Ming Jingtai 1 (1450), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Jinshi memorial archway 进士牌坊 in Zhangyutou gang 章鱼头港 in honor of Zhou Tan 周埮. The main overall temple of the Zhanjiang eight shê alliance is the Zhangjiangjing Zhaolinggong 章江境昭灵宫 temple, located in Houzhou 后周 village, which contains the altar of Zhangjiang lishê 章江里社. This temple was built in Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488). The temple is divided into eight shê altars: Qiannan Pengshê 前南彭社 (for Qianhu 前湖 and Houhu 后湖), Qiannan shushê 前南书社 (for Houzhou 后周), Qianxishê 前西社 (for Xicuo 西厝), Qianbeshê 前北社 (for Beicuo 北厝), Qiandong zushê 前东祖社 (for Huibi 灰壁), Qiandongshê 前东社, Qiandong shushu 前东书社 (for Houpeng 后彭) and Qianxing qingshê 前兴庆社 (for Weicuo 尾厝). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君. Secondary gods are Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Baima xianggong 白马相公, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. The following are the dates at which the eight shê come to the Zhangjiang lishê 章江里社 during Yuanxiao festivities to carry the goddess Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 back to their villages for opera and a procession: Qiandongshê 前东社, Qiandong shushê 前东书社 1/9 Beicuo qianbeishê 北厝前北社 1/12, Qiandong zushê 前东祖社 1/13 Houzhou qiannan shushê 后周前南书社 1/14 Xicuo qianxishê 西厝前西社 1/15, 1/17 Qiannan pengshê 前南彭社 1/16 Weicuo 尾厝, Gangxi yanqingshê 港西延庆社 1/18 In addition, in the fourth and eighth lunar months, each shê invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 back to their village to watch opera. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of Zhangjiang eight-shê ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. Houzhou 后周 1. Village settlement Houzhou is part of the Gangli Administrative Village 港利行政村. The population of Houzhou village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname group The main surname group is the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples 1) Baoquan yuan 宝泉院 (Taishifu 太师府) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主, Rulai fozu 如来佛祖, Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘, Yangjie 杨姐, Weituo 韦驮, and Liuyuan dajiang 六员大将. 2) Fuxingdong 福星洞 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 3) Xiangyangci 向阳祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 lists 277 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 villagers invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 from the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 back to their village to go on a procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera performances. 8/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Qiannan Zhoushê 前南周社 is held with opera performances. 
V052 Houpeng 后彭 1. Village settlement Houpeng is part of the Gangli Administrative Village 港利行政村. The population of Houpeng village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in the village are the Li 李 and the Peng 彭. 3. Village temples 1) Xinglongci 兴隆祠 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is invited from Zhaolingong 昭灵宫 for a procession throughout the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Qiandong shushê 前东书社 is held with opera performances. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with opera performances. 
V053 Houhu 后湖 1. Village settlement Houhu village is part of the Gangli Administrative Village 港利行政村. The current population is over 200 people. 2. Village surnames The Peng 彭 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1). Mingshan xingong 名山新宫 is dedicated to Huangdu yuanshuai黄都元帅. The secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Jin daren 金大人 and Wei daren 魏大人. 2). Qingde’an 清德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the villagers join with Qianhu village 前湖 to invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 on a procession around both villages’ ritual territories. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/9: The celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅 is held with opera 演戏. 10/12: The celebration of the birthday of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and 后土夫人of the Qiannan Pengshê 前南彭社 is held with opera 演戏. 
V054 Qianhu 前湖 1. Village settlement Qianhu is part of the Gangli Administrative Village 港利行政村. Qianhu has a population of approximately 800 people. The village is divided into the two neighborhoods of Xincuoli 新厝里 and Jiucuoli 旧厝里. 2. Surname groups The 彭 are the dominant surname groups in Qianhu village. 3. Village temples 1) Zhanjiang shuyuan 章江书院is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Fayuting 法雨亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Deshantang 德善堂 was built in Guangxu 3 (1914). (PTZJZCG, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Qianhu village joins with Houhu 后湖 village to invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to go on a procession around their villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Qiannan Pengshê 前南彭社 is held with performances of opera. Huibi 灰壁 1. Village settlement Huibi is part of the Gangli Administrative Village 港利行政村. Huibi village has a population of approximately 250 people. 2. Surname groups The Peng 彭 are the dominant surname group in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Baoxing chansi 宝醒禅寺 is dedicated to Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is invited from the Zhaohuilong 昭灵宫 to go on procession around the Huibi village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/3: The villagers invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 from the Baoquanyuan 宝泉院 to watch opera. 9/16: The celebration of the birthday of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Qiandong zushê 前东祖社 is held. 
V056 Xicuo 西厝 1. Village settlement Xicuo is also known as Xilin 西林. Xicuo is part of the Gangxi Administrative Village 港西行政村. The population of the village is 826 people. 2. Surname group The Lin 林 are the predominant surname group in Xicuo village. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangrici 向日祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Taiyi tianzun 太乙天尊, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huban dashen 虎班大神, Fenghuo erge 风火 二哥, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Baolianyuan 宝莲院 was built in the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620). The main god is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods include Dizang pusa 地藏菩萨, Damo zushi 达摩祖师 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 3) Huxi shuyuan 湖西书院 is now an elementary school. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4) Baoliansi 宝莲寺 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V057 Beicuo 北厝 1. Village settlement Beicuo is part of the Gangxi Administrative Village 港西行政村. The current population of Beicuo is 585 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Beicuo village are the Peng 彭 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Longdetan 隆德坛 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Qingqindong 清沁洞 is dedicated to Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4) Renhuici 仁惠祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 villagers invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to go on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera. 6/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhangjiang qianbeishê 章江前北社 is held with opera. 
V058 尾厝 Weicuo 1. Village settlement Weicuo is part of the Gangxi Administrative Village 港西行政村. The population of Weicuo village is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Weicuo village are the Peng 彭 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Damafu 大妈府 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 villagers invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to go on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/20: the celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held with opera. 
A012 Xindu jiushê (Xindu nine shê ritual alliance) 新度九社 The nine shê ritual alliance of Xindu is located between the Shangxiaqu 上下渠 and the Luowai 罗外 main channels of the Mulan irrigation system. This Xindu nine shê ritual alliance area was part of the Jiuqiaopu 九桥铺 (police/defense unit) of the Nanlili sub-canton 南力里. In the Ming, the area had the village of Xindu 新度. In the early Qing the villages of Jiuqiao 九桥 and Dongdian 东店 separated off. Currently, the area is divided into four large neighborhoods: Dubian 度边, Dongdian 东店, Houting 后亭, and Sanjiaozeng 三角曾. The local ritual system is further subdivided into nine shê altars. The Zixinggong 紫星宫 temple located in Houting 后亭 is the main temple for the Xindu nine shê alliance. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 with Yangfu bajiang 杨府八将 as the secondary gods. Each year in the second month at the toufu 头福 ritual, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is carried in a procession around the nine shê of Xindu 新度九社. The current population of this area is more than 5000 people. The surname groups are rather mixed. The most prominent ones are the Weng 翁 and the Tang 汤. The Weng came from Qingjiang 清江 while the Tang 汤 came from Putian city. In the Ming, the Zhou 周 of Xindu village were a prominent lineage with successful examination candidates. In Hongzhi 6 (1493), a Panlong 攀龙牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Zhou Gongan 周公安, and it survives to this day. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Xindu nine-shê ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 
V059 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting is part of the Xindu Administrative Village 新度行政村. Houting has approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cai 蔡 and the Chen 陈. There are also Weng 翁 and Xu 徐 minor surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Yongtanshê 涌坛社 includes three shê-altars, namely the Yongtan zushê 涌坛祖社, Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 and Yongtan zhongshê 涌坛中社. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人(three statues of each). The secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qianshi xianfei 钱氏 仙妃. 2) Xindujing Zixinggong 新度境紫星宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Yangfu bajiang 杨府八将. 3) Guilinsi 桂林寺 is dedicated to Zhunti wenfo 准提文佛. 4) Xinglongting 兴隆亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Pumingtang 普明堂 belongs to the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and the Xu 徐. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人 and Linzhenming 林贞明. 6) Baoxingan 宝兴庵 was built in the Ming. (PTZJZCG, 1992:221) 7) Puzhaoan 普照庵 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:221) 8) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 lists 360 initiates. 9) Tongxingci 桐星祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:17 lists 101 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and the Xu 徐 take the incense burners of the Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 on a procession around the village. On 1/15 the Cai 蔡 and the Chen 陈 take the incense burners of the Yongtan zushê 涌坛祖社 on a procession around the village. During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession to every village in the nine-fold alliance of Xindu 新度九社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held with marionette plays, and is organized by the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and the Xu 徐. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays, and is organized by the Weng 翁, the Chen 陈 and the Xu 徐. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed. 
V060 Dubian 度边 1. Village settlement Dubian is part of the Xindu Administrative Village 新度行政村. There are approximately 1000 people in Dubian village. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Tang 汤. There are also Wu 吴, Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, and Lin 林 minor surname groups. There is a Tang lineage hall 汤氏祖祠 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 is located within the Yongtanshê 涌坛社 of Houting 后亭. 2) Yongtan wushê 涌坛武社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 3) Yongtan tangshê 涌坛汤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Zhongyong shenghou 忠勇 圣侯. 4) Wanlinggong 万灵宫 is dedicated to Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Yuetangci 月塘祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Hufa longtian 护法龙天. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 lists 394 initiates. 6) Chongkongtang 崇孔堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Shangtian 上天 and Daqing 大青. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 lists 300 initiates. 7) Jukui shuyuan 聚奎书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 goes on procession. On 1/13 Yongtan wushê 涌坛武社 goes on procession. During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession through each village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/2: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is organized by the Jukui shuyuan 聚奎书院. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays, and is organized by the Yuetangci 月塘祠. 10/1: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongtan dongshê 涌坛东社 and the Yongtan tangshê 涌坛汤社 is held with opera performances. This event is organized by the Lin 林 and the Tang 汤. 10/15: The pudu 普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are organized by the Zunkongtang 尊孔堂. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is held with opera, and is organized by the Wanlinggong 万灵宫. 11/10: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera performances, and is organized by the Wu 吴, the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. 11/15: Pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 普度 are organized by Yuetangci 月塘祠. 
V061 Dongdian 东店 1. Village settlement Dongdian is part of the Xindu Administrative Village 新度行政村. Dongdian has a population of approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Fang 方, Zhou 周, Lin 林, Wu 吴, Chen 陈 and Tang 汤. 3. Village temples 1) Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社 was built in Qianlong bingwu (1786) and rebuilt in 1944. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Wanfutang 万福堂 is dedicated to Chenfu daren 陈府大人. Secondary gods: Zhu daifu 煮大夫, Shen daifu 沈大夫, Zhou daifu 周大夫 Zheng daifu 郑大夫. 3) Ruiyundian 瑞云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, and Baifu daren 白府大人. 4) Shunrentang 顺仁堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 and Cuifu yima 崔府姨妈. 5) Kaishundian 开顺殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6) Xinglongting 兴隆亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Tongmingtang 桐明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 254 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社are taken on a procession around the village boundaries by the Fang 方, Zhou 周, Lin 林, and Wu 吴 households. During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession to every village in the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with opera, and is organized by the Ruiyundian 瑞云殿. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera performances organized by the Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社. 4/18: The celebration of Huang erdaxiong 黄二大兄 is held with operas organized by Wanfutang 万福堂. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with operas organized by the Yongtan wenshê 涌坛文社. 8/18: The celebration of Chenfu daren 陈府大人 is held with operas organized by the Wanfutang 万福堂. Sanjiaozeng 三角曾 1. Village settlement Sanjiaozeng is part of the Xindu Administrative Village 新度行政村. The population of Sanjiaozeng village is approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in the village are the Zou 邹, the Huang 黄, and the Hu 胡. Minor surnames include the Zhou 周 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xingxian xinshê 兴贤新社 was built in Qianlong 51 ( 1786), and was rebuilt in 1995. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 3) Wanan xueshê 万安学社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Baozhenggong 葆真宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The secondary gods are Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Jiongxingtang 炯星堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Junlutang 俊禄堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 238 initiates. 7) Tongxingtci 桐星祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:17 claims 200 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Huang 黄 and the Hu 胡 take the incense burners of the Xinxian zushê 兴贤祖社 on a procession to each of their respective households to practice the Dao xingdao 行道. On 1/12 the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, and the Huang 黄 take the incense burners of the Wanan xueshê 万安学社 on a procession to each of their households to practice the Dao xingdao 行道. On 1/14, the Zou 邹 take the incense burners of the Xingxian xinshê 兴贤新社 on a procession to each of their own households to practice the Dao xingdao 行道. In the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried in a procession to every shê. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian xinshê 兴贤新社 is organized by the Zou 邹 with opera performances. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole with opera performances. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by the village as a whole with opera performances. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by the village as a whole with opera performances. 7/8: The celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is organized by the Zou 邹 with opera performances. 10/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanan xueshê 万安学社 is organized by the Huang 黄 and the Hu 胡. 11/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is organized by the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. 
A013 Cuobing sishê (four shê alliance of Cuobiing) 厝柄四社 
V063 Cuobing 厝柄) 1. Village settlement Cuobing is also known as Zhuba 珠坝. The village is located between the Shangxiaqu 上下渠 and the Yangcheng doumen 洋城 斗门 main channel. In the Ming this area was part of the Nanlili sub-canton 南力里, but it was reassigned to the Zhuqiaopu 珠桥铺 (police/defense unit) of the Guoqingli sub-canton 国清里 in the Qing. Currently it is both a natural village and an Administrative Village. The population is over 3000 people. In terms of its temple ritual system, it is divided into four shê altars. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Dai 戴. Other surnames include the Shen 沈, Huang 黄, Weng 翁, Chen 陈, and Cai 蔡. The Lin are the Lin of Jiumu 九牧林, while the Dai came from Donggang 东港 of Huangshi 黄石, the Huang from Huangxia 黄霞, and the Chen from Kuokou 阔口. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the ritual units of the Cuobing four-shê ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 3. Village temples 1) Cuobingjing Longjinmiao 厝柄境龙津庙 (Taishifu 太师府) is dedicated to Yangfu dagong 杨府大公. The temple was built in the mid-Qing, and is the main overall temple of Cuobing village. Secondary gods are Yangfu dama 杨府大妈, Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君.Cuobing four shê ritual alliance 2) Longjin zushê 龙津祖社, which belongs to the Lin 林, is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xigong xima 喜公喜妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社, which belongs to the Lin 林, is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qitian yuanshuai 齐天元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Chunxing dongshê 淳兴东社(also known as Dengaoshê 登鳌社), which belongs to the mixed surnames 杂姓, was for a long time the location for the village committee of the Cuobing village 厝柄村委会. During that period, its god statues are placed in the Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5) Longjin xishê 龙津西社, Baoangong 保安宫, which belongs to Dai 戴 has been rebuilt after being destroyed and its god statues placed in the Chunxing nanshe 淳兴南社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Qingyundian 清云殿 is in Xicheng 西埕 and belongs to the Lin 林. This temple branched off from the Qingyundong of Xihuang in Lingchuan 灵川 西黄清云洞 in 1939. The main god is Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods are Tianbao yuanshuai 天宝元帅, Kuide dashen 魁德大神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jiaoming xianshi 教明仙师, Lishanwang 李山王, and Huobu dashen 火部大神. 7) Ciyunge 慈云阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Yuyingtang 育英堂 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 9) Wanantang 万安堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 10) Xingxiatang 行夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 250 initiates. 11) Minyang shuyuan 闽阳书院, Zhuzici 朱子祠 was originally owned by the thirteen village alliance, but was destroyed in 1973. An ancient stele commemorating the temple is currently preserved at the Minyang elementary school 闽阳小学. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back to the temple 接神, and the first opera is performed 头场戏. On 1/6 the incense burners of Chunxing dongshê 淳兴东社 are taken on procession. On 1/7 the incense burners of Longjin zushê 龙津祖社 are taken on procession. On 1/8 the incense burners of Longjin xishê 龙津西社 are taken on procession. On 1/9 the incense burners of Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社 are taken on procession. Between 1/21–2/5, on a day determined by divination, the incense burners and gods of 龙津庙 Longjin miao are taken on procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Zongxiatang 宗夏堂. Marionette plays are performed. 2/16: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Longjin zushê 龙津祖社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. During the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chunxing dongshê 淳兴东社, Chunxing nanshê 淳兴南社 and Longjin xishê 龙津 西社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 9/9: The celebration of Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 10/28: The rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 are held, organized by the Xingxiatang 行夏堂. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups There used to be Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums) in the past. Currently, there is only one Shentong 神童, who is Futi 附体 possessed by Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘. This Shentong 神童 is a woman in her thirties who was married into the local community from the outside. It is said that during the Cultural Revolution, some people kept certain items taken from temples as their own. All these people were pointed out by her during the ceremony of the descending of the gods. 
A014 Puban qijing (Puban sevenfold ritual alliance) 蒲坂七境 Puban is also known as Tuban 土阪 and Simali 司马里 sub-canton. Puban is located alongside the Shangxiaqu 上下渠 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. It was part of the Pubanpu 蒲阪铺 (police/defense unit) of the Nanli sub-canton 南力里. In the Ming the area had the village of Puban 蒲阪, which in the Qing divided off into the village of Shangdun 上墩. Currently the area has divided into the seven large settlements of Houzheng 后郑, Xijiao 西角, Yaogou 腰沟, Goucen 沟岑, Shangdun 上墩, Houdai 后代, and Peiwei 沛尾. The entire area currently has over 6000 people The main livelihood is agriculture. There is a shortage of agricultural land. During the Land Reform movement, each person was distributed a mu (1/6th of an acre) of land, but now each person can only get around half of the previous amount. Puban sevenfold ritual alliance There is also a shortage of water. The local people once fought with those from Donggou 东沟 over water rights. The Qixingmiao 七星庙 temple located in Houzheng 后郑 village is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The secondary god is Mao zhongjun 毛中军. Every twelve years, the gods of the Qixingmiao 七星庙 are invited on a procession around the villages of the sevenfold alliance of Puban. The main surname groups of the Puban ritual alliance are the Zheng 郑 and the Dai 戴. In addition there are the smaller surname groups Lin 林, Zhu 朱 and Guan 关. The Zheng lineage name is “Nanhu Zheng” 南湖 郑氏. The Zheng of Puban first moved from the South Gate of Putian walled city after they were bullied by the Lin 林. They moved first to Yangcheng 洋埕 and Yangzhong 洋中, and later moved to Puban. In the Ming Zhengde period (1506–1521), the local resident Zheng Yue 郑岳, who had served as Vice-Minister of Revenue, had a tertiary irrigation canal dug leading into the Puban area from a secondary channel of the Mulan irrigation system. This would cause large-scale problems within the irrigation system as a whole, but it did bring immediate benefit to the Puban area. Zheng Yue also built the Puban lishê 蒲阪里社. The Zheng now occupy the four villages of Xijiao 西角, Houzheng 后郑, Yaogou 腰沟, and Goucen 沟岑. The Zheng make up more than 3000 people. The Dai 戴 have more than 1700 people. They are settled in Houdaijiao 后戴角 village. The Lin 林 and the Zhu 朱 each have more than 100 people. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Puban sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 
V064 Goucen 沟岑 1. Village settlement Goucen is also known as Dagou 大沟. Goucen is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The population of Goucen is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Lingyundian 凌云殿 was built recently as it was branched out from the Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong mountain 壶公山. The main god is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Secondary gods are Wanggong yuanshuai 王公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, Dafa tianshi 大法天师, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Zhangcong xianshi 张从仙师. 2) Yinxinting 印心亭 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Xuantian yuanshuai 玄天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Senyutang 森玉堂 is dedicated to Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Guanan zhongshê 灌安中社 is located in the main temple for Houzheng 后郑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners 社炉 of Guanan zhongshê 灌安中社 are taken on procession to every household to practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with opera. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performed five times over three days. 8/15: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held with opera. 8/21: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with opera. 
V065 Houzheng 后郑 1. Village settlement Houzheng is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The population of Houzheng is approximately 1000 people. The village is mentioned in a stone inscription composed in Jiajing 5 (1526) by Zheng Yue 郑岳 entitled 蒲坂兴造碑 (Record of the Construction of (a bridge and a temple) at Puban) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:152, No. 130) describing the digging of an irrigation canal to the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. There is a Zheng Ancestral hall. They preserve a stele composed in Jiajing 5 (1526) by Lin Jun 林俊 entitled 蒲坂郑祠增建记 (Record of the expansion of the Zheng ancestral hall of Puban) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:154, No. 132). 3. Village temples 1) Guananshê 灌安社, Longxingtang 隆兴堂, Yuyinggong 育英宫is the main shê altar for the Puban 蒲阪 ritual alliance. The temple includes the Zhongshê 中社, Nanshê 南社, Beishê 北社, and Dongshê 东社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公 元帅, Jialuo dadi 伽罗大帝, Ziwei xingjun 紫微星君), Jingbian dutong 静边 都统 (these are a Zheng father and his two sons 郑氏一父二子), Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃. 2) Qinglingdian 青凌殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Dongyue dadi 东岳大帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Huangheng dadi 黄横大帝, Zhang gong dadi 张公大帝, and the Bajiang 八将 (Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao 赵, Feng 风, Yu 雨, Lei 雷, and Dian 电). 3) Qixingmiao 七星庙 is owned by the sevenfold ritual alliance of Puban, and every twelve years its gods are taken on a procession throughout the alliance. The temple is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Mao Zhongjun 毛中军. 4) Qixingdong 七星洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. 5) Chongbaoci 崇报祠 was built to commemorate Zheng Yue 郑岳. 6) Xingxiatang 行夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 725 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝 is held. Opera is performed five times over three days. 3/8: The celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is held. Marionette opera is performed. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performed five times over three days. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held. 
V066 Houdai 后戴 1. Village settlement Houdai is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The village currently has more than 1700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Dai 戴. There is a Dai lineage hall 戴氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Longxingtang 隆兴堂 is dedicated to the Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Ziwei xingjun 紫微星君). Secondary god are the Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Guanan xishê 灌安西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shunandong 顺安洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. Secondary god are Guniang 姑娘, Touling 头领, and Congzi 囱子. 4) Hansantang 函三堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 1130 initiates. 5) Yanxiatang 衍夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. There are 300 initiates. 6) Qingxindong 清心洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 7) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Xiedaye 谢大爷, Huangdaye 黄大爷 and Lidaye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on procession around the village. On 2/1 the rites of Toufu 头福 are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝 is held. Opera is performed five times over three days. 4/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performed five times over three days. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with opera. 10/29: The celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is held with opera. 
V067 Goudong 沟东 1. Village settlement Goudong is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The population of Goudong village is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Zheng 郑. There is a Lin lineage hall 林氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Guanan dongshê 灌安东社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Fengxiangci 凤翔祠 was built during the Ming Yongle period (1403– 1424). The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods are Huangshi shengfei 黄氏圣妃 and Mao zhongjun 毛中军. 3) Donglin shuyuan 东林书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4) Huilange 回澜阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Pudongtang 蒲东堂 is dedicated Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 4/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with opera. 
V068 Shangdun 上墩 1. Village settlement Shangdun is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The population of Shangdun village is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑 and the He 何. 3. Village temples 1) Guanan nanshê 灌安南社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Guanan dashê 灌安大社 was built in 1914, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Chenzhi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Wanangong 万安宫 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Huye 虎爷, and Daxiong 大兄. 4) Yitianci 一天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:17 claims 700 initiates. 5) Benyuantang 本源堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Wanfutang 万福堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Laomu niangniang 老母娘娘. Secondary gods are Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Renda laoye 任大老爷. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held with operas. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with operas. 
V069 腰沟 Yaogou 1. Village settlement Yaogou is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The village is also called Gouxia 沟下. The current population of the village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑 and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Guanan beishê 灌安北社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Longdetang 隆德堂: Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Ziwei xingjun 紫薇星君. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 (co-owned with Peiwei 沛尾) is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, and Zhuo Zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 250 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with operas. This event is co-sponsored by Peiwei 沛尾 village. 
V070 Peiwei 沛尾 1. Village settlement Peiwei is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. The population of Peiwei village is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Zheng are 郑 the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Guanan zhongshê 灌安中社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Qinglingdian 青凌殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Dongyue dadi 东岳大帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Huangheng dadi 黄横大帝, Zhanggong dadi 张公大帝, and the Bajiang 八将 (Wen, Kang, Ma, Zhao, Feng, Yu, Lei, Dian 温康马赵风雨雷电). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a procession around the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝 is held with operas. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V071 Xijiao 西角 1. Village settlement Xijiao is part of the Puban Administrative Village 蒲阪行政村. Xijiao village has a population of 965 people. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Guanan zhongshê 灌安中社 is located within the Houzheng main shê temple 后郑总社. 2) Xingpingdian 兴屏殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Jibei yuanshuai 极倍 元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Fengdaren 冯大人, Lidaren 李大人, and Xunbu dage 巡部大哥. 3) Husantang 壶三堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. There is a procession around the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with operas. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with operas. 
A015 Xiaban qijing (Xiaban sevenfold ritual alliance) 下阪七境 The Xiaban sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Shangxiaqu main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. The area was part of the villages of the Xiabanpu 下阪铺 (police/defense unit) and the Shanping Huangcuopu 山屏黄厝铺, both of which were part of the Nanlili sub-canton 南力里. There were two villages here in the Ming, namely Xiaban 下阪 and Shanping 山坪. In the Qing the following villages divided off: Xiahe 下何, Huangcuo 黄厝 and Houxiang 后巷. Currently the overall population is over 4000 people. The temple ritual system is divided into seven ritual organizations (qijing). The main livelihood is from agriculture and raising fruit trees. Xianban sevenfold ritual alliance The Xianshuitan 仙水坛 of Zhongjing 中境village is the main overall temple of the seven village ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, Hushan dawang 壶山大王, Qianliyan 千里眼and Wanlier 万里耳. Each year on 1/22–23 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马 圣王 are carried in a procession through the seven ritual organizations of the alliance 巡游七境. On 3/23, the birthday of 天上圣母, 5/13, the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王, 8/15 the Mid-autumn festival 中秋节, and 9/9, the ascension to heaven date of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母升 天日, the seven ritual organizations jointly sponsor opera performances at the temple. These activities are managed by the Xianshuitan temple management committee. The Chen 陈, Hong 洪 and Li 李 were prominent local lineages who produced successful examination graduates. In Ming Xuande 5 (1430) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan memorial archway 解元牌坊 in Xiaban village 下阪 on behalf of Li Pu 李蒲. In Ming Tianshun 7 (1463), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up an E Luo 峨寽 memorial archway in Shanping 山坪 for the Hong 洪 lineage. In Ming Hongzhi 13 (1500) the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Sanshi qingyun 三世青云牌坊 (Three generations of blue-green clouds) memorial archway in Xiaban 下阪 in commemoration of the generations of successful members of the Zhang 张lineage living there. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Xiaban sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance. 
V072 Zhongjing 中境 1. Village settlement Zhongjing is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪行政村. Zhongjing has a population of more than 300 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods called Lishê 李社 and Yangshê 杨社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李 and the Yang 杨. Other surname groups include the Chen 陈, He 何, Zhou 周, Yue 岳, and Wang 王. The Li of Zhongjing originated from the Li of Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Xianshuitan 仙水坛, Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Hushan dawang 壶山大王. Front of the hall: Left: Qianliyan 千里眼. Right: Wanlier 万里耳. 2) Baofu shushê 保福书社 belongs to the Li 李. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Wanan dongshê 万安东社 belongs to the Yang 杨. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Xianshuidong 仙水洞 is dedicated to Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the Yang 杨 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Li 李 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 (carrying the sedan chairs of the gods over bonfires), and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/27: The birthday celebration of Daye 大爷 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Funding is gathered on a per capita basis. 3/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofu shushê 保福书社 is organized by the Li 李. Opera is performed 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanan dongshê 万安东社 is organized by the Yang 杨. Opera is performed. 
V073 Xiahe 下何 1. Village settlement Xiahe is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪行政村. Xiahe village currently has 949 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何. There are also two Ruan 阮 households. 3. Village temples Wanan xishê 万安西社 and Wanandian 万安殿: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Fude zhengsheng 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with opera. 4/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Baofu shushê 保福书社 is held with opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with opera. 
V074 Huangcuoli 黄厝里 1. Village settlement Huangcuoli is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪行政村. Huangcuoli currently has a population of over 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. The Huang came from Huangxiang 黄巷 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Wanyuanmiao 万源庙 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wangfu daren 王府大人 and Wang tianguan 王天官. 2) Yonganshê 永安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. This temple was rebuilt in recent years. 3) Yongxingsi 永兴寺 was built in Qianlong 3 (1738) and is now a Buddhist nunnery 尼姑庵. The main god is Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. Secondary gods are Weito 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Two fushou 福首 are selected each year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V075 Houxiang 后巷 1. Village settlement Houxiang is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪行政村. Houxiang village has a population of 1000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Zhoushê 周社 and Chenshê 陈社. Two fushou 福首 are selected by each neighborhood in rotation. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhou 周 and the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Yu 余 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Chenshi zhenren 陈氏 真人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社 belongs to the Zhou 周. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zongbentang 宗本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhou 周 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Chen 陈 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. This is organized by the Chen 陈. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/27: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/4: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chen 陈 Opera is performed. 7/16: the celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 10/7: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社is organized by the Zhou 周. Opera is performed. 10/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. Dalu 大路 1. Village settlement Dalu is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪 行政村. Dalu village has a population of over 200 people. The great majority of these villagers are Christians. 2. Surname groups Dalu is a single surname village. The only surname is He 何. 3. Village temples Wanxing xishê 万兴西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Wencao wupan 文曹武判. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar 社炉 and palm sedan chairs 棕轿 on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to beg the gods for blessings and happiness 乞喜. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. 
V077 Shanping 山坪 1. Village settlement Shanping is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪行政村. Shanping village currently has a population of over 650 people. The village is divided into three neighborhood ritual associations on the basis of lineage. They are the Hongshê 洪社, the Zhengshê 郑社 and the Zashê (mixed surname neighborhood) 杂社. Two fushou 福首 are selected from each shê each year. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Hong 洪 and the Zheng 郑. Other minor surnames include the Chen 陈, Lin 林, Weng 翁, and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Jiyishê 积义社 belongs to the Hong 洪 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Changyishê 长义社 belongs to the Zheng 郑 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Di diye 狄帝爷. 3) Xianyishê 显义社 belongs to the mixed lineages 杂姓 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Wanyitang 万益堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母. Secondary gods: Jiqing hou 积庆侯, Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳. 6) Wanyitang 万益堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 7) Tongmingdong 通明洞 is dedicated to Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Zheng 郑 take the incense burner of their shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11 the Hong 洪 take the incense burner of their shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the miscellaneous surname groups 杂姓 take the incense burner of their shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 7/9: The celebration of Dage 大哥. Marionette plays are performed. 8/15: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 10/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Changyishê 长义社is organized by the Zheng 郑. Opera is performed. 10/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Jiyishê 积义社is organized by the Hong 洪. Opera is performed. 10/4: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xianyishê 显义社is organized by the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓. Opera is performed. 
V078 Hongshan 红山 1. Village settlement Hongshan is part of the Xiaban Administrative Village 下阪行政村. Hongshan has a population of 242 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yue 岳, Zhang 张, Wang 王, and Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Xingzhangshê 兴章社, Xingzhangdian 兴章殿: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官 大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 The gods of Xingzhangshê 兴章社 and Xingzhangdian 兴章殿 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/5: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/18: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Marionette plays are performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera or marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters may be invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A016 (
V079 Shanxiang sijia (The four jia ritual alliance of Shanxiang) 善乡四甲 Shanxiang) 1. Village settlement The four jia ritual alliance of Shanxiang is located alongside the Shangxiaqu main channel of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. This area was part of the Shanxiangpu 善乡舖 (police/defense unit) of Nanlili 南力里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Qianzhang 前张 and Gaocen 高涔. In the Qing the village of Xiawen 下问 divided off. Nowadays all the natural villages have merged into a continuous mass, all administered by the Shanxiang Administrative Village 善乡行政村. The current overall population is over 3000. The local temple ritual system is divided into the four jia of Qianzhang 前张, Xiazhang 下张, Xibian 溪边, and Goutou 沟头. There are around twenty Christian families in Shanxing. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 makes up 80% of the population. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Kang 康. It is said that the ancestors of the Zheng emigrated from Xiaban 下坂 in Huangshi 黄石 There currently exists a Zheng ancestral hall which is used for the Laorenhui (elderly association) 老人会 of the village. In the Ming dynasty the Zheng lineage produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and five Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates), and so they were the pre-eminent local lineage. In Shanxing four jia ritual alliance the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Shanxing four jia ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. 3. Village temples 1) Mingshangong 名山宫 (described above) is the main temple for the four jia associations of Shanxiang. It is also the main overall temple of the Lingyun Upper Eighteen village ritual alliance 凌云上 十八乡总宫 (see the discussion of the Nanyang irrigation system above). Two stelae are preserved in the temple, the Guangxu 30 (1904) 重修名山神 应庙碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Divine Response Temple of Mingshan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:355, No. 319) and the Xuantong 3 (1911) 名山神应庙前栏杆碑誌 (Inscribed statement on the ballustrade in the front of the Divine Response Temple of Mingshan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:359, No. 323) 2) Shanxianjing Xinanshê 善乡境溪南社 belongs to Qianzhang 前张 and Xibian 溪边, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Huoguang dadi 火官大帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公(鲁部大神), Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Nan jiangjun 男将军, and Nü jiangjun 女将军. 3) Zhengfushê 正福社 (Qianzhang lishê 前张里社), belongs to Xiazhang 下张 and Goutou 沟头. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Shanqingtang 善庆堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Qiongyutang 琼玉堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Li xianshi 李先师 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 6) Shihudian 石湖殿 (Zhanggongdong 张公洞) is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The secondary god is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 7) Enguangting 恩光亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and the secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 8) Shanxiantang 善现堂 was built in Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:220) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9 villagers takes the gods of the Xinanshê 溪南社 on a procession. On 1/15 the gods of the Zhengfushê 正福社 are taken on procession. On 1/26–28, during the final evenings of the Yuanxiao festival 末晚元宵, the gods of the Mingshan gong 名山宫 are taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed for two days. Five Three in One scripture masters 经师 and one drummer are invited for one afternoon of rites. The men of the village are divided into ten groups, each having fifty-six people. Four directors are selected each year to organize the ritual activities. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The celebration of Huoguang dadi 火官大帝 is held as part of the final evening festivities of Yuanxiao 尾晚元宵. Two days of opera are performed. 2/16: 7/16: 7/23: 8/8–9: 8/12: 8/16: 8/23: 9/12: 11/25: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. Qianzhang 前张 village invites Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch opera for two days. Xibian 溪边 village invites Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch opera for two days. The celebration of Zhengfushe’s 尊主明王 Zunzhu mingwang 正福 社 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Xiazhang village 下张 invites Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch opera for two days. The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. The celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is held with two days of opera. To mark the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts, Mulian 目莲戏 marionette plays are performed. Dongjiao liucun (Dongjia six village ritual alliance) 东郊六村 The Dongjiao six village alliance is located along the Shangxiaqu main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Xili Dongniepu 西利东皋铺 police/defense unit) of the Nanlili sub-canton 南力里. In the Ming, this area had the village of Donggao 东皋, but in the Qing the villages of Donggou 东沟, Xili 西利 and Houli 后利 branched off. Currently the area includes six natural villages: Dongcuo 东厝, Xili 西利, Xiating 下亭, Dingsong 顶宋, Houli 后利 and Songxia 下宋, all of which are under the administration of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire cluster of villages has approximately 5000 people. The main livelihood is rice agriculture. Other livelihoods include cash crops such as sugarcane, tomatoes and vegetables. Hushangong 壶山宫 of Xiating 下亭 village contains the altar of the Liantang shangshê 莲塘书社. This is the main temple for the six village ritual alliance of Dongjiao. The temple was built during the Ming Hongwu period (1368–1398) and was restored during the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850), and then was rebuilt in 1991. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Each year with an intercalary second lunar month, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣Dongjiao six shê alliance is taken on a procession through the six villages of the ritual alliance. Each year with an intercalary third lunar month, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is taken on a pilgrimage to Meizhou 湄洲 island to request incense from the mother temple of the Mazu cult. This cluster of villages also has over fifty Christian households. The main surname groups are the Song 宋, Zheng 郑, Li 李, and Wu 吴. The Song 宋 have approximately 2500 people. It is said that the ancestors of the Songs emigrated from Putian city. The Song lineage is divided into four branches, of which the first branch moved to Duwei 度尾 in Huangshi 黄石, and there is only one household of the first branch remaining in the village. The second branch makes up the majority of the Song in the Dongjiao 东郊村 area. The third branch has more than 100 people while the fourth branch has only one or two households. The Zheng 郑 moved to this area from Puban 蒲阪, and are divided into four branches: the First Branch 头房, Houcuo 后厝, Xicuoli 西厝里, and Fourth Branch 四房, of which the Houcuo branch has the most people, at approximately 300 people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it was later burnt down. The Houcuo branch used to have a lineage genealogy, but it has been lost. Their ancestral tombs are in lower Hushi township 下笏石. Having moved to Dongjiao from Xili 西利 in Huangshi 黄石, the Li 李 lineage is now divided into five branches: Xiacuo 下厝, Toucuo 头厝, Tingjingtou 厅井头, Xibian 西边 and Xincuoding 新厝顶, of which Houcuo has the most people, with more than 500 people. There is a lineage genealogy which is identical to that of the Li of Yangwei 洋尾李氏. The Wu 吴 have over 100 people, and are divided into three lineage branches: With more than 100 people, the Xian branch 贤房 has the most people. The first branch only has one household remaining. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of the Dongjiao six village ritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance. 
V080 Dingcuo 顶厝 1. Village settlement Dingcuo is part of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire village has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 make up more than two thirds of the village population. The Chen 陈 make up one third of the population. 3. Village temples 1) Dutang zushê 渡塘祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qitian dashen 齐天大圣. 2) Dexinci 德馨祠 was rebuilt in 1992, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. Secondary gods are Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Beidou xingjun 北斗 星君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin pusa 观音菩萨, Sanguan daren 三观大人, Tianmin zongshi 田民 宗师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法 and Hongci yuanshuai 宏祠元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 515 initiates. 3) Juliumiao 聚流庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Jinshaan 金沙庵 was built in 1920 (PTZJZ, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on a procession within the village. These events are organized by the Zheng 郑 and the Chen 陈. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed at Hushangong 壶山宫 for two days. 7/16: the celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed. 8/1: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V081 Dingsong 顶宋 1. Village settlement Dingsong is part of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire village has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The Song 宋 makes up more than 95% of the population. 3. Village temples 1) Hulan biegong 壶兰别宫 contains the altar of the Liantang shushê 莲塘书社. The temple is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Sanxianshi 三仙师. 2) Baoshandong 宝山洞 is dedicated to Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 3) Baoshandian 宝山殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods are Yutong jiangjun 玉通将军and Yuzhao xianshi 玉昭仙师. 4) Xihuci 西湖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 420 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on a procession within the village and the village of Xiasong 下宋. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited. 5/15: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. Opera is performed for two days. This event is jointly organized by the six village alliance. The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed. 11/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 and one drummer are invited to conduct the rites. Three in One Scripture masters can also be invited to perform these rites. 7/16:Xiasong 下宋 1. Village settlement Xiasong is part of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire village currently has more than 900 people. 2. Surname groups The Song 宋 makes up more than 95% of the population. 3. Village temples 1) Hulan biegong 壶兰别宫 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Jiushengmu 九圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Shengmugong 圣母宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Yuleigong 雨雷宫 is dedicated to Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅. 4) Shanxintang 善信堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Shanmingtang 善明堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. 6) Yanghuci 仰壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Wuxian dadi 五显 大帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuozhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 520 initiates. 7) Qingjingan 清净庵 was built in the early Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:220) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on a procession within the village and to Dingsong 顶宋 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed at Hushangong 壶山宫 for two days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. The village collaborates with Dingsong 顶宋 village. Xili 西利 1. Village settlement Xili is part of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire village currently has more than 866 people. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 makes up more than 95% of the population. Two fushou 福首 are selected according to their ages each year. 3. Village temples 1) Xingqingshê 新庆社is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Bimindian 庇民殿 houses the Qingxinan 清心庵 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wengong yuanshuai 温公 元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is taken to each household to xingdao 行道 carry out the Way, and then goes on procession around the village. On 1/14 the old and the new Fushou 福首 exchange ranks, and that evening they join a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/15 Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is taken back to the temple, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao rite 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed for one day. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with two days of opera. 
V084 Xiating 下亭 1. Village settlement Xiating is part of the Dongjiao Administrative Village 东郊行政村. The entire village currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Song 宋. The Wu 吴 have more than 100 people. 3. Village temples 1) Hushangong 壶山宫 contains the altar of the Liantang shushê 莲塘书社, and is the main overall temple for the six village ritual alliance of Dongjiao 东郊. The temple is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Wenhuiting 文慧亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. 3) Shundetang 顺德堂 is dedicated to the Sanshiqiwei Daren 三十七位大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on a procession by the Wu 吴. On 1/15 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on procession by the Song 宋. On 2/9 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Sanshiqiwei daren 三十七位大人is held with two days of opera. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 11/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held in collaboration with Xiasong 下宋 village. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct these rites. 
V085 Houli 后利 1. Village settlement The entire village currently has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the main surname group. Other surnames include the Yu 俞, the Zheng 郑 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Dutang lishê 渡塘里社 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beihuci 北壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 1150 initiate—which seems unlikely. 3) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 goes on a procession within the village. This event is organized by the Lin 林. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Song 宋. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed. 10/25: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts are conducted. Opera is performed for two days. Three ritual masters 师公 are invited to hold the rites. 
A018 (
V086 Zhangqiao sanjia (Zhangqiao three jia ritual alliance) 樟桥三甲 Zhangqiao 樟桥) Zhanqiao 樟桥 is also written Zhangqiao 章桥, and is also called Zhangyang 樟洋. The village is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门. This area was part of the Zhuqiaopu 珠桥铺 (police/defense unit) of the Guoqingli 国清里 subcanton. The village of Zhangqiao 章桥 was in existence in the Ming, and it has remained a single natural village, which is managed by the Zhangqiao Administrative Village 樟桥行政村, with a population of some 1500 people. The village ritual system is divided into three jia ritual associations, namely Qianzhi 前至, Houzhi 后至, and Qiaotou 桥头. These associations annually select four Fushou 福首 by rotation to manage the ritual activities of the year. The main livelihoods are agriculture and making Xinghua rice noodles 兴化米粉. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Zhangqiao sanjia ritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The surname groups are diverse. The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Xu 许. The Lin came from Hengtang 横塘, while the Xu came from Jiewai 界外 (the area beyond the limits of the coastal evacuation). Other surnames include the Xie 谢 (from Dongjia 东甲), the Huang 黄 and the Zhou 周 (from Qingjiang 清江), the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Wu 武. The Zhou originally had an ancestral hall, but it has been destroyed. 3. Village temples 1) Buqinggong 步青宫 was built in Kangxi 17 (1678), it was rebuilt in Guangxu 34 (1908) and was renovated in 1935. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Dongyue dadi 东岳 大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Bigong yuanshuai 毕公元帅, Gaogong yuanshuai 高公 元帅, Shandian yunmu 闪电云母, Leibu xingjun 雷部星君, Baban 八班, and Zaoye 皂爷. 2) Dengaoshê 登鳌社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Taohua shengmu 桃花圣母, and Li zhangzhe 李长者. 3) Zhengfutang 正福堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 5) Huoshuiting 活水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Mingshanan 明善庵 was built in 1931. (PTZJZ, 1992:222) Zhangqiao three jia ritual alliance 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/3, the first opera of Yuanxiao 元宵 is performed. Between 1/16–30, on a day determined by divination, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯 are taken on a procession throughout the village. Lantern processions are held at night, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. On 2/1, the Toufu 头福 celebration is held. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two to three days. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. On this day, dragon boat competitions of the Duanwu festival 端午龙舟赛 are held. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with two days of opera. 8/29: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 10/13: The celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣侯(also called Babaoye 八宝爷)is held with two days of opera. 
A019 (
V087 Yangcheng qijing (Yangchen sevenfold ritual alliance) 洋埕七境 Yangcheng 洋埕 ) Yangcheng 洋埕 is also written as 洋城. The village is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门. This area was part of the Yangchengpu 洋城铺 (police/defense unit) of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton 洋城铺. This area already had a village forming in the Southern Song. Currently Yangcheng is divided into ten large neighborhoods: Zhongjing 中境 (Qiangou 前沟), Hougou 后沟, Jindong 金东 (Xichun 熙春), Xicuotou 西厝头 (Quchi 曲尺), Louxia 楼下, Zhongxian 忠献 (Zhongjun 中浚), Shengdong 升东, Dinggou 顶沟. Xiagou 下沟, Menqian 门前. The overall population of Yangcheng is 4366 people. However the ritual system is primarily based on different lineages and so has been divided into seven ritual associations 七境. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The five earliest surnames in this area were the Lin 林, the Zheng 郑, the Wang 王, the Yang 杨 and the Huang 黄. Later the, Xie 谢, Zeng 曾, Dai 戴, Xu 许 and Zhou 周 surname groups also moved into the area. In the Ming, Yangcheng was a famous region for the production of examination graduates. The five lineages who settled earliest (see above) between them produced nine Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and thirty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) Yangcheng sevenfold ritual alliance the Fujian Provincial Commissioner 福建布政使 set up a Zhouxiu 昼繍 牌坊 memorial archway for the Lin lineage 林. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway for the Yang lineage 杨. In Ming Chenghua 4 (1468) Censor-in-Chief Zhang Xuan 都御史张瑄 set up a Shike 世科牌坊 (generations of successful examination graduates) archway for the Lin lineage 林 and the Prefect Yue Zheng 知府岳正 set up a Jingjie 旌节牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zheng lineage 郑. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495) the Censor Wang Zhe 御史王哲 set up a Conggui 丛桂牌坊 memorial archway for the Yang lineage 杨. In Ming Hongzhi 10 (1497), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up an Yiguang 依光 牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄. Currently, the Lin 林 surname makes up some 60% of the overall population. They are divided into three main lines: the Quexia Lin 阙下林, the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 and the Changcheng Lin 长城林 and they have preserved a Lin lineage ancestral hall 林氏祠堂and a Lin genealogy 林氏族谱. There is also a Yang 杨 ancestral hall. The text of a stone inscription composed in Chenghua period (1465–1487) by Zheng Ji 郑纪 entitled 杨氏祠堂记 (Record of the Yang Ancestral hall) describes this hall (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:115, No. 102). In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Yangcheng sevenfold ritual alliance were all members of the black banner alliance. 3. Village temples 1) Yangchengjing Tongyingmiao 洋埕境通应庙 and its Guilinshê 桂林社 in Zhongjing 中境 is the main temple of the whole village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhutian dadi 注天大帝. This temple is said to have been originally built in the Song dynasty and rebuilt in Yongzheng 5 (1727) and Jiaqing 8 (1802). 2) Wudanggong 武当宫 is located in Jindong 金东. It is said that this temple is older than the Beichengong 北辰宫 in Huangshi. Originally built in Yuan Zhizheng 25 (1365), the temple was rebuilt during the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1505) and renovated in Qianlong 18 (1753). The temple is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 in his martial Wu 武 manifestation. 3) Huilongtang 会龙堂 is located in Jindong 金东 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Longxingtang 龙兴堂 is dedicated to Wutan liejun 五坛列君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Yunshuitang 云水堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims 286 initiates. 6) Dongansi 东安寺: The original site was destroyed by flood and it has not been rebuilt yet. The monks currently live at Guanghuasi 广化寺. 7) Jinshu fayuan 金枢法院 is next door to the Wudanggong 武当宫, and dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods are Honggong yuanshuai 鸿公元帅 and Yufu zhongjun 玉府中军. 8) Xichun dongshê 熙春东社 is next to Wudanggong 武当宫, and belongs to the Xie 谢. The main gods are Zunshu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 9) Jinpingshê 锦屏社 is in Xicuotou 西厝头 and belongs to the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 and the Wang 王 and the Huang 黄. Main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Ertai shenghou 二太圣侯. 10) Huixiandong 会仙洞 is in Jindong 金东 and is dedicated to Huaxiangu 花仙姑. 11) Miaoshantang 妙善堂 is in Jindong 金东 and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 12) Longyingtang 龙应堂 is in Zhongjing 中境 and belongs to the Lin of Quexia 阙下林. The temple is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 13) Jixingdong 集兴洞 is in Zhongjing 中境 and belongs to the Lin 林, the Wang 王, and the Yang 杨 of Quexia 阙下. The main god is Daxiong 大兄, secondary gods are Erxiong 二兄, Sanxiong 三兄. 14) Longdetan 隆德坛 in Hougou 后沟 belongs to the Lin of Quexia 阙下林. The main god is Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府 大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qinglou furen 青楼 夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 15) Runxintang 润心堂 is in Hougou 后沟 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Longshu zushi 龙树祖师. 16) Qimingtang 齐明堂 is in Hougou 后沟 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 villagers go on a procession to Hugongshan Lingyundian 壶公山凌云殿 to request the incense fire of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. This is organized by Tongyingmiao. On 1/9–10 the Quexia Lin of Louxia 楼下阙下林 take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅神 on a procession around the village. On 1/10–11 the Quexia Lin of Zhongjing 中境阙下林 take Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around the village. On 1/12 the Wang of Xicuotou 西厝头王 take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 on a procession around the village. On 1/13 the Huang of Xicuotou 西厝头黄 take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around the village. On 1/14 the Jiumu Lin of Xicuotou 西厝头 九牧林 take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession. On 1/15–16 the Quexia Lin of Hougu 后沟阙下林 take the incense burner 社炉 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and then on a procession around the village. On 1/20 the Xie of Jindong 金东谢 take Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Honggong yuanshuai 鸿公元帅 on a procession around the village. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to go on procession around the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is organized by Wudangdong 武当宫. 4/5: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 熙春东社尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Xichun dongshê is organized by the Xie 谢. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Wang 王. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by the Jinshu fayuan 金枢法院. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by Longdetan 隆德坛. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Wudanggong 武当宫. 7/16: The celebration of 三一教主 is organized by Qimingtang 齐明堂. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Huangjing 黄境. 9/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Guilinshê 桂林社 is organized by the Quexia Lin 阙下林. 10/2: The celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is organized by the Zhongjing Lin 中境林. 11/16: The celebration of Kong daren 孔大人 is organized by the Zhongjing Wang 中境王 and Yang 杨. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days (unless otherwise specified), and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Qiantang qijing (Qiantang sevenfold ritual alliance) 钱塘七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Qiantang is located alongside the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate. This area was part of the Qiantang Houxupu 钱塘后许铺 (police/defense unit) of the Guoqingli sub-canton 国清里. There were two villages in this area in the Ming: Qiantang 前塘 and Xiaohengtang 小横塘. In the Qing three other villages branched off: Xiazhuang 下庄, Houxu 后许 and Houyuan 后院. In the late Qing three more villages separated off: Lingding 岭顶, Huangyuan 黄园 and Shangheng 上坑. Currently there are seven natural villages in the area, all administered by the Qijing Administrative Village 七境行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into the inner four-fold ritual alliance and the outer three-fold ritual alliance. The Lingyinggong 灵应宫 temple, located in Qiantang 钱塘 village, was the original main overall temple of the inner four ritual associations, and is now the overall temple for the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods worshipped are Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Each year on lunar 2/25 Liugong yuanshui 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅 are invited to go on processon around the villages of the Qiantang sevenfold ritual alliance 钱塘七境. The Peng 彭 and the Chen 陈 were local lineages who produced examination graduates. In Ming Hongzhi 9 (1496) the Censor Zeng Lu 御史曾禄 set up a Shuangfeng 双凤牌坊 (Double Phoenix) memorial archway for the brothers Peng Fu 彭甫 and Peng Shen 彭申 of Xiaohengtang 小横塘 village. In the late Qing feuding banner associations, the inner four-fold ritual associations villages of Qiantang 钱塘, Lingding 岭顶, Houyuan 后院 and Houxu 后许 were part of the black banner alliance. The outer three-fold ritual associations of the villages of Huangyuan 黄园, Xiazhuang 下庄, and Shangkeng 上坑 belonged to the red banner (neutral) village alliance. It is said that the latter villages were once part of the twenty-four wards of Huangshi ritual alliance, and they still participate in the ritual activities of that alliance. 
V088 Qiantang 钱塘 1. Village settlement Qiantang is part of Qijing Administrative Village 七境行政村. The village of Qiantang has a population of approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Peng 彭. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, and Huang 黄. The Peng are related to those living in Gangli 港利. Each year three toulu (heads   Qiantang sevenfold ritual alliance men who carry the incense burners 头炉) are selected in rotation to manage the ritual activities of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Changningshê 钱塘境常宁社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wencao wubang 文曹武判. 2) Lingyinggong 灵应宫 is dedicated to Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Huating xiangu 花亭仙姑. 3) Qingsongtang 青松堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhumating 驻马亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Way. Opera is performed. On 2/15 Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 of Lingyinggong 灵应宫 along with Liugong 刘公, Zhanggong 张公 and Qiugong 邱公 go on procession through the four village alliance, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rituals 做醮. These events are organized by the four village alliance as a whole. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with operas. 9/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with operas. Two pigs are sacrificed and Daoists are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. 10/1: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held with operas, and Daoist ritual masters conduct jiao rites 做醮. 
V089 Lingding 岭顶 1. Village settlement Lingding is part of Qijing Administrative Village 七境行政村. The village of Lingding currently has 551 people. Each year five toulu 头炉 incense heads are selected in rotation based on their age. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Yang 杨, and Ruan 阮. According to the survey data from 1998, 80% of the population are surnamed Chen 陈 and 10% are surnamed Lin 林. The Yang came from Yangcheng 洋埕. 3. Village temples 1) Lingdingjing Changning shushê 岭顶境常宁书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Taixinggong 台星宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 3) Sanshengtang 三圣堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Lingfenggong 岭峰宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅 and the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and then around the village boundaries. At night palm sedan chairs are carried around and Daoists ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held with at least ten days of opera performances, which are sponsored by those families which that year have given birth to boys. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V090 Houxu 后许 1. Village settlement Houxu is part of Qijing Administrative Village 七境 行政村. The village has a population of approximately 600 people. In addition, there are approximately 130 people living in the Xiayuan 下院 neighborhood. Each year four incense headsmen are selected in rotation on the basis on their ages to manage the ritual activities of the year. 2. Surname groups According to the survey data from 1993, there were 110 households in the entire village, of which more than forty were of the Xu surname groups 徐, more than twenty households of the Wang surname group 王, six households of the Zheng surname group 郑, six households of the Peng surname group 彭, and two households of the Xu surname group 许. The Wang came from Yunzhuang 云庄 of Quqiao 渠桥. There were originally a Fumaci 驸马祠 and a Wang ancestral hall 王氏祖祠 in Yunzhuang. 3. Village temples 1) Quqing shushê 取青书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Shuijitang 水积堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods on the left: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, and on the right: Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and then around the village boundaries. At night palm sedan chairs are carried around and Daoists ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/25: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V091 Houyuan 后院 1. Village settlement Houyuan is part of Qijing Administrative Village 七境 行政村. The population of Houyuan is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhu 朱, Lin 林, Peng 彭, and Pan 潘. The Lin came from Qingpu in Huangshi 黄石清浦 while the Zhu came from Jingpu in Huangshi 黄石井埔. 3. Village temples 1) Taixinggong 台星宫 was rebuilt in 1988. The temple is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods, on the left altar, are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, on the right altar: Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. In the front of the temple are altars to Sanye 三爷 and Siye 四爷. 2) Houyuanjing Fuanshushê 后院境福安书社 was rebuilt in 1986, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Side altars: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wuhu jialuo 吴虎迦罗, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3) Genyuantang 根元堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and then around the village boundaries. At night lanterns are carried in a procession and Daoists ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with opera and Daoist rites, and is organized by the village as a whole. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera and Daoist rites, and is organized in collaboration with Houxu 后许 and Lingding 岭顶 villages. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites, organized by the village as a whole. 
V092 Huangyuan 黄园 1. Village settlement Huangyuan is part of Qijing Administrative Village 七境行政村. The village of Huangyuan has a population of approximately 600 people. Every year, there are two Fushou 福首 who are selected by rotation to manage annual rituals. Christians make up one third of the population of Huangyuan village 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Peng 彭. 3. Village temples Huangyuanjing Kaiyuan xinshê 黄园境开元新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and then around the village boundaries. Opera is performed and Daoists ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 12/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V093 Xiazhuang 下庄 1. Village settlement Xiazhuang is part of Qijing Administrative Village 七境行政村. The entire village has a population of approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈 and there is a Chen lineage ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 in the village. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Liu 刘, and Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Xiazhuangjing Kaiyuan zongshê 下庄境开元宗社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong dashi 黄公大使, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. This temple is the ancestral shê-temple of Shangkeng 上坑 and Huangyuan 黄园 villages. 2) Ruiyingmiao 瑞应庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 3) Jidongshan 即东山 is dedicated to 三一教主. 4) Longxingting 龙兴亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao), and then around the village boundaries. At night lanterns are carried in a procession and Daoists ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. During the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated by participating in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/22: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Gucheng gong 谷城宫 is invited to watch the opera. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V094 Shangkeng 上坑 1. Village settlement Shangkeng is part of the Qijing Administrative Village 七境行政村. The village is also called Shanggeng 尚庚. The entire village has a population of approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Weng 翁. The Chen is the Chen surname group of Yuhu 玉湖陈, and they came from Kuokou 阔口 of Chengjiao 城郊. The Weng came from Qingjiang 清江 of Huangshi 黄石. 3. Village temples 1) Shangkengjing Kaiyuan dongshê 上坑境开元东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 2) Wenchangge 文昌阁 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 3) Qingshuigong 清水宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Secondary gods are Fenghuo erlang 风火 二郎, Siye 四爷, Wuye 五爷, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 5) Huilanting 廽澜亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 villagers take Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and the incense burners of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and then around the village boundaries. A procession goes to Xiazhuang Kaiyuan zongshê 下庄开元宗社 to worship, and at night a lantern procession takes place, opera is performed and Daoists ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
A021 Shuinan sicun (Shuinan four village ritual alliance) 水南四村 The Shuinan four village ritual alliance is located at the feet of the Gucheng mountain 谷城山, and was part of the Longguilingpu 龙桂岭铺 of Jingdeli 景德里 sub-canton and the Zongzhupu 东洙铺 of Guoqingli 国清里 subcanton. In the Ming, this area had Tangtou village 塘头村 within Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton, and the two villages of Dongzhu 东洙 and Lukeng 卢坑, which were part of Jingdeli 景德里 sub-canton. In the Qing, Tangtou 塘头 village was reassigned to Jingdeli 景德里 while the villages of Dongzhu 东洙 and Lukeng 芦坑 were re-assigned to Guoqingli 国清里. In the Qing, the village of Shandou 山兜 separated off, and was also assigned to Guoqingli 国清里. The Shangan shushê 上安书社 located in Dongzhu village 东洙村 is the founding shê altar of the Shuinan four village ritual alliance 水南四村祖社. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Every year on lunar 1/16 the gods go on a procession through the four villages of the Shuinan alliance. Historically, the Chen 陈, Song 宋, Ye 叶, and Yang 杨 were prominent lineages which produced successful examination graduates. In Song Duanping 3 (1236) the Xinghua Assistant Prefect 兴化军通判 set up a Shijiang (Hanlin Expositer-in-Waiting) 侍讲牌坊 memorial archway in Tangtou 塘头 in honor of Chen Shichu 陈士楚. In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan 解元牌坊 memorial archway in Tangtou 塘头 in honor of Song Yong 宋雍. In Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) the Regional Commissioner 巡按御史set up a Jianxiu 荐繡牌坊 memorial archway in Tangtou 塘头 in honor of Ye Luan 叶峦. In Ming Tianshun 3 (1459) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan 解元牌坊 memorial archway in Dongzhu 东洙 in honor of Yang Lang 杨琅. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Shuinan four village ritual alliance were all members of the white banner alliance. Shuinan four village ritual alliance 
V095 Tangtou 塘头 1. Village settlement Tangtou is under the administration of the Huangshi Residential Committee 黄石居委会. The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Yu 余, Liu 刘, Zhang 张, Li 李, and Huang 黄. Two fushou 福首 are rotated each year. The text of a stone inscription composed in Tianshun 7 (1463) by Lin Wen 林文 entitled 余氏 祠堂记 (Record of the Yu Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:101, No. 92) describes the Yu Ancestral hall of this village. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang shushê 龙塘书社 was originally called Kaiyuan shangshê 开元上社. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right: Wuhu jiangjun 五虎 将军. 2) Longtangjing Xianyinggong 龙塘境显应宫 is dedicated to Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 3) Qigongci 戚公祠 is dedicated to Qigong dudu 戚公都督. 4) Zhenmingtang 贞明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is the secondary deity. 5) Zizhuting 紫竹亭 was built in the Qing, and was destroyed in 1958 and rebuilt in 1988. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 6) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:217). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17, The gods of Longtang shushê 龙塘书社 and Xianying gong 显应宫 are invited to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V096 Dongzhu 东洙 1. Village settlement Dongzhu was originally known as Dongzhu 东朱. Dongzhu is part of the Shuinan Administrative Village 水南行政村. The entire village has approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林, Li 李, Zhang 张, Chen 陈, and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Shangan shushê 上安书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Qitiangong 齐天宫 was built in 1990. Middle: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Shangan shushê are invited to go on procession within the village territory as well as to the villages of Tangtou 塘头, Lukeng 卢坑 and Shandou 山兜. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. The village participates in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. During the 5th–6th lunar months, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神 is held. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 7/2: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/11: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 
V097 Lukeng 卢坑 1. Village settlement Lukeng is part of the Shuinan Administrative Village 水南行政村. Lukeng village currently has 492 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Yu 俞, Gong 龚, and Dai 戴. 3. Village temples 1) Shangde zushê 尚德祖社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right altar: Li zhangzhe 李长者, Qian siniang 钱四娘. 2) Qingshuigong 清水宫 is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is invited to go on procession within the village territory as well as to the villages of Dongzhu 东洙, Tangtou 塘头, and Tingxia 亭下. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. The villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V098 Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement Shandou is part of the Shuinan Administrative Village 水南行政村. Shandou village currently has 185 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhang 张, Chen 陈, Sun 孙, and Lin 林. There is no main surname group. According to local legend, the village was originally mainly occupied by the Zhang, and there were thousands of them. During the Qing Tongzhi period (1862–1874), they had a court dispute with Yaotai village 瑶台 and were raided by the government of the time, leaving behind only three Zhang households. 3. Village temples Xingan shangshê 兴安上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道(practice the Dao) and then on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
A022 (
V099 Yaotai sanjia (Yaotai three jia ritual alliance) 瑶台三甲 Yaotai 瑶台) Yaotai was originally called Yaodou 窑兜. It is located alongside the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This area was part of the Yaotaipu 瑶台铺 (police/defense unit) of Jingdeli sub-canton 景德里. The village had already formed in the Ming, and to this day it remains a single natural village, as well as being an Administrative Village. The village currently has 3900 people, and is divided into three jia: Shangjing 上境, Zhongjing 中境, and Nanjing 南境. Apart Yaotai three jia ritual alliance from agriculture, in the past, the main source of livelihood came from the operation of the kilns. In recent years, many villagers have become stone masons 石工, brick layers 泥工, and carpenters 木工. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Yaotai three jia ritual alliance was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Lin 林, the He 何 and the Zhang 张. There are also Cheng 程, Li 李, Zheng 郑 and Chen 陈 minor surnames. In Shangjing, the Lin 林 make up half of the population, while the Cheng 程 and the Li 李 make up the other half. In Zhongjing, there are 120 Lin 林 households, 90 He 何 households, and some households of the Zheng 郑, Li 李, and Chen 陈. In Nanjing, the Zhang 张 are the main surname group. The Lin emigrated from Qingjiang 清江 to Yaotai 瑶台, and divided into six lineage branches. The fourth and the sixth branches are in Shangjing, while the fifth branch is in Zhongjing. There were three Lin ancestral halls 林氏宗祠 in the past. The He came from Sanjiangkou 三江口. There used be a He ancestral hall. Currently, they have 500 people. 3. Village temples 1) Yaotaijing Qingshuigong 瑶台境清水宫: Main hall: Middle altar: imperially enfeoffed Wanggong shenghou 敕封王公圣侯. Left altar: Dulue jiangjun 都略将军 (Yanggong taishi 杨公太师). Right altar: Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母. Rear hall: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhaoling shengjun 昭灵圣君. Left side: Liuyuanshuai 刘元帅. Right side: Qiuyuanshuai 邱元帅. 2) Yutang sheshê 玉塘书社: Hall sign 匾额: Lishê weimin 立社为民. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3) Fuzhonggong 福中宫: Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Zhongyitang 中一堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Dichuan Lin Zhenming 嫡传林真明, Zaichuan Weng Wudao 再传翁吾道, Sanchuan Weng Yiyang 三传翁一阳, Sichuan Lin Zhengming 四传林正明, Wuchuan Zhang Jidao 五传张吉道, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Jiuye 九爷. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 lists 290 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4–5, Qingshuigong 清水宫 receives the gods. The first opera of the year, Touchangxi 头场戏, is performed. On 1/6–7 Shangjingjia 上境甲 takes the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening they hold a lantern procession around their territorial boundaries. On 1/11–13: Zhongjingjia 中境甲 takes the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening they hold a lantern procession around their territorial boundaries. On 1/15–16: Nanjingjia 南境甲 takes the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening they hold a lantern procession around their territorial boundaries. After 1/20, on a day determined by divination, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held, with a common procession around the entire Yaotai territory (this is called circling the mountain 圈山). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals in groups of seven. If the day determined by divination is in the second lunar month, then a procession has to be held to all the twenty-four pu wards of Huangshi township 黄石二十四铺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/9: The birthday celebration of Wanggong shenghou 王公圣侯. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Dulue jiangjun 都略将军. 7/5: The birthday celebration of Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, unless otherwise noted, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct jiao rites 做醮. 
A023 Fengshan liucun (Fengshan six village ritual alliance) 凤山六村 The six village ritual alliance of Fengshan is located along the shores of the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This area was part of the Guqing Shangzhengpu 姑青上郑铺 (police/defense unit) of the Jingdeli sub-canton 景德里. In the Ming, this area already had the village of Zhengzhuang 郑庄村, and in the Qing the villages of Changcen 长岑, Xiaban 下阪 and Yuanqian 院前 separated off. More recently the village of Tiancuo 田厝 separated off. These are locally known as the Wusha 五沙. Fengshangong 凤山宫 temple in Dingzhuang 定庄 village is the main temple for the six village ritual alliance. The main god worshipped in Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Every year in the fourth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi is invited to go on procession around the six villages. In the eighth lunar month, the six villages take turns inviting Yanggong taishi to their village temples to watch opera. This area had three prominent surname groups in the Song, namely the Lin 林, the Li 李 and the Song 宋. In the Ming this area was known as a famous region for the production of examination graduates. Between the five surnames from this region (Lin 林, Song 宋, Tu 涂, Li 李 and Huang 黄) there were altogether eight Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and thirtythree Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Fengshan six village ritual alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. Fengshan six village ritual alliance Dingzhuang 定庄 1. Village settlement Dingzhuang was originally called Zhengzhuang 郑庄. Dingzhuang is part of the Dingzhuang Administrative Village 定庄 行政村. The entire village has approximately 2000 people. It is subdivided into four shê: the Linshê 林社, Wushê 吴社, Zhangshê 张社, and Songshê 宋社. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 make up 80% of the village population, the Wu 吴 make up 10%, and the Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, Zhou 周, Chen 陈, and Song 宋 together make up the remaining 10%. The Lin are the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. There currently exists a Guoqing Lin ancestral hall 国清林氏 宗祠. The Wu came from Longdu 龙渡 (originally part of Shuinan qianpo 水南钱坡) of Huangshi, and are the descendants of Wu Ying 吴英, the Provincial Commander of the Naval Forces 水师提 under Emperor Kangxi (1662–1722). There currently exists a Wuying Shrine 吴英祠堂 in the village. The ancestral hall of the Wu is near the Chongxingsi 重兴寺, on Huangshi shujie 黄石书街. 3. Village temples 1) Dingzhuangjing Fengshangong 定庄境凤山宫, originally built during the Ming Dynasty, was expanded during the Ming Chongzhen period (1628–1644). The Tanyue master 坛越主, or temple patron, was one Lin Yizhu 林一柱 of Dingzhuang village. The temple was destroyed in 1966 and rebuilt on the original site in 1983. The project was finished in 1992. The main hall is called the Taishifu 太师府, and is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods to the right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and on the side altars: Badajiang 八大将 (Left: Li 李, Xiao 肖, Bai 白, Zhang 张. Right: Liu 刘, Lin 林, Fan 范, Zhao 赵). The Rear Hall is dedicated to Yanggong taishi’s father 圣父 and mother 圣母 (Yang Jiye 杨继业, She Taijun 佘太君). Left altar: Yangfu zhuxiongdi 杨府诸兄弟. Right altar: Yangfu jiuniangma 杨府九娘妈, Yangfu zhujiangjun 杨府诸 将军 (Badajiang 八大将). 2) Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 was rebuilt in 1993 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. 3) Jinli zushê 锦里祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5) Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社 was rebuilt in 2004, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社 was rebuilt in 1982 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wushi taiwangong 吴氏台湾公. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Jinlanting 今兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right altar: Guangong Yuanshuai 关公元帅. 8) Donglongmiao 东龙庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Linshuigong 临水宫 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 10) Fulongtang 福隆堂 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄. 11) Baoen guangde si 报恩广德寺 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. There is an extant Jiaqing 12 (1807) donation stele 捐碑. 12) Fengshan chansi 凤山禅寺 was rebuilt in 1984. The Daxiong baodian 大雄宝殿 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left altar: Weituo 韦驮. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11, the Zhang 张 and the Zhu 朱 invite the gods of Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/12–13, the Lin 林 invites the gods of Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Four fushou 福首 from Linshê 林社 “circle the lanterns 圈灯” (lead the lanterns in a procession in a circle around the village boundaries) while holding the incense burners of the shê-altar. In the past, four Daoist ritual masters 法师 and three Buddhist monks 和尚 were invited to conduct rituals. Nowadays, five Daoist ritual masters accompanied by a drummer conduct the rituals. On 1/14, the Song 宋 invite the gods of Jinli zushê to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. On 1/15, the entire village invites the gods of Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. That day, the gods go on procession around the village territory. On 1/16, the Wu 吴 invites the gods of Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. These events are organized by Fengshan gong 凤山宫, and a procession around the five sha 五沙 as well as all the villages of Shadi 沙堤 on a selected lucky day. 5/25: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. These events are organized by both Jinlan ting 今兰亭 and Baoen guangdesi 报恩 广德寺, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 (Linshui furen 临水夫人). These events are organized by the Zhang 张 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社. These events are organized by the Wu 吴 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 (Rites of Universal Deliverance) are held. These events are organized by Baoen guangdesi, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社. These events are organized by the Zhang 张 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jinli zushê 锦里祖社. These events are organized by the Song 宋 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, from the 11th to the 17th of the 4th and the 8th lunar months, Taishiye 太师爷 goes on procession. 3/6:Changchuan 长川 1. Village settlement Changchuan was originally called Tangsheng 塘塍, Changsheng 长堘, and Changcen 长岑. Changchuan is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Changchua village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, Chen 陈, and Zhang 张. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingtai zushê 兴泰祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu shenghou 土主圣侯. 2) Xinglingdong 兴灵洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 (Fujie gongchen 复界 功臣). 3) Wangmugong 王母宫 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xunan baodaren 巡按包大人. 4) Zhimige 支弥阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Longxingtang 隆兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lingbao tianzun 灵宝天尊, Daode tianzun 道德天尊. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Xingtai zushê 兴泰 祖社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated with performances of opera. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/1–3: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
V102 Xiaban 下阪 1. Village settlement Xiaban is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Xiaban village has approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation to organize the annual rituals: two from the Zhang and two from Chen There are 213 Zhang 张 households, 70 Chen 陈 households, and 20 Wu households, summing up to 303 households in total. The Zhang of Xiaban emigrated from Shadi village 沙堤村 of Huangshi 黄石 in Ming Hongwu 15 (1382). There was a genealogy in the past. There is currently the original site of the Zhang ancestral hall 张氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Hushanjing Xingbaoshê 壶山境兴保社: Middle hall: Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅. Left hall 左殿: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right hall: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Xingxianshê 兴贤社, Lufu 鲁府: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu laoye 土主老爷. Right altar: Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Lufu xiangshou 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Front: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣 先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军. 3) Jinmingci 金明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Jindetang 金德堂: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo 韦驮. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Yongxing Buddhist temple 永兴寺 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 6) Shanjitang Buddhist hall 善继堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 7) Shanan Buddhist temple 善安寺 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/24, the Zhang 张 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê 兴保社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/25, the Chen 陈 take Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê to visit each of their households and to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On these occasions, cookies are distributed to families 分丁饼. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/7: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. Opera is performed for two days. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement Tiancuo is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Tiancuo village currently has 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zheng 郑. The Zheng of the village emigrated from Hankou 汉口 of Shadi 沙堤 during the Qing Tonggzhi period (1862–1874). There currently exists a Zhengshi jiaozhong ancestral hall 郑氏教忠祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Shenglong shushê 升龙书社: Originally called Deyi dongshê 德义东社, it was built in 1944. There is an extant stele entitled Benxiang lizao sheyu gongjin 本乡立造社宇公禁. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Kaiquan shuyuan 开泉书院: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left altar: Kuidong xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the gods of Shenglong sheshu are invited to go to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao), and a lantern procession is held around the village territory. Opera is performed for two days and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/11: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Shangyuanqian 上院前 1. Village settlement Shangyuanqian is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. The village currently has 408 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhang 张. The ancestors of the Zhang of the village were originally long-term workers (Changgong 长工). They came here during the late Qing Dynasty to watch over the tomb of their patron 财主. Later on, they settled down to start their own clan. 3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙, Anningshê 安宁社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xianying zumiao 显应祖庙: Middle altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xianyingting 显应亭: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Xianyingtang 显应堂: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and Anningshê 安宁社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the village boundaries while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V105 Xiayuanqian 下院前 1. Village settlement Xianyuanqian is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. The village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhang 张. It is of the same ancestry as the Zhang of Shangyuanqian 上院前. There currently exists a Zhang ancestral hall 张氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙: Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Anningshê 安宁社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and Anningshê 安宁社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/23–24: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A024 Huangshi bashê (Huangshi eight shê ritual alliance) 黄石八社 The eight shê of Huangshi are located along the streets and lanes of Huangshi town. This area was part of the Longguilingpu 龙桂岭铺, the Linqingpu 临 青铺, the Shujiepu 书街铺, the Dongzhenpu 东圳铺 of the Jingdeli subcanton 景德里 and the Anxingpu 安兴铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田 里. In the Ming, Huangshi was already a market town, and was already called a qijing (sevenfold ritual alliance). Currently, this area is managed by the Huangshi Residential Committee. The temple ritual system is divided into the following eight shê altars: Guiling 桂岭, Tingxia 亭下, Dongjing 东井, Tangwei 塘尾, Shuyuankou 书院口, Shixia 市下, Shuangxingjing 双星井, and Anxing 安兴. The Shuinan Tianhougong 水南天后宫 of Guiling village is the main temple for the eight shê of Huangshi town. The temple was built in the Ming Hongwu period (1368–98), and was rebuilt and changed into the Shuinan Huiguan 水南会馆 in Qianlong 60 (1795). The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 1/15 the eight shê of Huangshi hold a general Yuanxiao festival, and a collective procession. Each year with an intercalary third lunar month, they invite Tianshang shengmu to go on procession to all the eight shê of Huangshi. Huangshi eight shê ritual alliance This region has long been famous for producing examination graduates, and in the Ming Huangshi town had 56 Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and 193 Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The most prominent lineages were the Fang 方, Huang 黄, Ye 叶, Song 宋, and Weng 翁. In Song Qiandao 8 (1172) a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Huang Ai 黄艾. In Ming Zhengtong 8(1443) a Zhuangyuan (First Place) 状元牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Fang Xie 方澥. In Ming Chenghua 8 (1472) a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Lin Zheng 林正. In Ming Chenghua 16 (1480) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Yue 方岳. Also during the Chenghua period (1465–1487) another Jinyi guidi 锦衣归第牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Xin 方新. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499) a Sishi qingyun 四世青云牌坊 (Four generations of graduates) memorial archway was set up for the Ye lineage 叶. In Ming Hongzhi 14 (1501) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Weng Maonan 翁茂南 and a Xiongdi jinshi 兄弟进士牌坊 (two brothers both Metropolitan Graduates) memorial archway was set up for the Song lineage 宋. Finally, in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1505) a Zhoubo 州伯 牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Huang Wanshuo 黄万硕. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the eight shê of Huangshi were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V106 Guiling 桂岭 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, Guiling is also called Puling 蒲岭. The current population is more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Lu 卢. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing shushê 龙兴书社, Shunqing tang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Sishi dazongshi 四氏大宗师. Left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Shuinan Tianhougong 水南天后宫: Originally built during the Ming Hongwu period (1368–1398), it was renovated in Qianlong 60 (1795). In the same year, the Shuinan huiguan 水南会馆 was established. Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right altar: the father 圣父, and mother 圣母 of Guanyin. 3) Shunqingtang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 lists 1006 initiates, which seems unlikely. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets and lanes of Huangshi township. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every 3/23, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited to go on procession within the entire Shuinan ritual alliance. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V107 Tingxia 亭下 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, there are currently 415 people in the village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Lin 林. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. Right altar: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Left side: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Right side: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets and lanes of Huangshi 黄石 town. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/17: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V108 Dongjing 东井 1. Village settlement The entire village currently has 560 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Li 李. Other surnames include the Ye 叶, Cai 蔡, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Zeng 曾, Yu 余, Shê 佘, Zhang 张, and Cheng 程. The Huang migrated from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江 and have lived in this village for 17 generations. 3. Village temples Zunrong shushê 尊荣书社: Originally called Yongan shushê 永安书社, it was rebuilt in 1922. Middle: 尊主明王 Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left: Tiangong Yuanshuai 田公元帅, Right: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏 真人. Front: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Wugong jishi 吴公吉使, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Zunrong shushê 尊荣书社 are invited to go on procession within its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V109 Tangwei 塘尾 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, it is divided into Shangtangwei 上塘尾 and Xiatangwei 下塘尾. There are currently more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Mixed surname groups 杂姓. 3. Village temples 1) Yutangpu Yulong shushê 玉塘铺玉龙书社: Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, it was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 47 (1782). Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Shanzhongtang 善种堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Chengong yuanshuai 陈公元帅. 3) Kaiyuantang 开元堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, residents participate in the procession of the gods through Huangshi 黄石 town. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. 6/29: The birthday celebration of Chengong yuanshuai 陈公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Shuyuankou 书院口 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, Shuyuankou currently has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shen 沈, Lin 林, and Su 苏. 3. Village temples 1) Xingqing shushê 兴庆书社: Zhongzuo shenzhang 中座神帐: Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母. Left: Liu shenghou 柳圣候. Right: Jin shenghou 金圣侯. Zuozuo shenzhang 左座神帐: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Youzuo shenzhang 右座神帐: Linshui furen 临水夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Huangshi wenmiao 黄石文庙: Located inside the Huangshi elementary school 黄石小学, this temple is registered as an important cultural relic protected by the Putian county 莆田县. This was the famous Hongquangong 红泉宫 during the Tang Dynasty, known as the Hongquan shuyuan 红泉 书院 during the Song Dynasty, where the renowned scholar Lin Guangchao 林光朝 instructed his disciples in Neo-Confucian doctrines. During the Ming Dynasty, it became Shuinan shuyuan 水南书院. It was destroyed during the invasion of the Japanese pirates, and was rebuilt during the Qing Kangxi period (1662–1722). There are seven stone inscriptions about this temple found in various written sources, but the temple was converted into a school, and only fragmentary remains of stelae can be found on the grounds. The inscriptions are as follows: 1) Chenghua 20 (1484) (by Huang Zhongzhao 黄仲昭) entitled 兴复红泉宫记 (Record of the Renovation of the Red Spring Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:111, No. 98); 2) Jiajing 1 (1522) 新建 水南书院记 (Record of the recent construction of the Shuinan Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:151, No. 128); 3) Wanli 32 (1604) 水南鼎建 文昌祠记 (Record of the construction of the Shuinan Wenchang shrine) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:192, No. 168); 4) Jiaqing 15 (1810 ) 重建水 南书院碑 (Stele on the reconstruction of the Shuinan Academy) [this stele is preserved at the Guchenggong temple in Huangshi, but is scarcely legible] (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:276, No. 241); 5–8) 重建书院董事芳名碑 (Stele listing the names of the managing committee responsible for the restoration of the (Shuinan) Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:277, No. 242) and further stelae entitled 重建书院题捐芳名碑 1–3 (Stele listing the names of the contributors to the restoration of the Shuinan Academy 1,2,3) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:278–281, No. 243, 244, 245); 9) Tongzhi 13 (1868) 莆田县正堂示禁乡民不得蹂躏青山松木碑 (Stele announcing a prohibition on local people gathering wood on Qing Mountain issued by the Putian District yamen) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:330, No. 295) [This extant stele was first erected at the Shuinan Academy but later was moved to the Guchenggong temple, were it can now be found]. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through Huangshi 黄石 town. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 3/13: The birthday celebration of Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V111 Shixia 市下 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, Shixia is divided into the second jia 二甲 and the third jia 三甲 ritual associations. There are currently more than 800 people living in Shixia. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Xingqing shangshê 兴庆上社 was built by its original tanyue master 檀越主 (patron), the Vice-Director of the Ministry of Revenue Huang Yuanjin 黄原谨员外郎. The temple was later rebuilt both in Qianlong 31 (1766) and again in Qianlong 47 (1782). It was renovated in 1987. The temple is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Longxingting 隆兴亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Lufu 鲁府 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Gongyuelou 拱月楼 belongs to the Second jia ritual association. Middle: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Laifenglou 来凤楼 belongs to the Third jia ritual association. Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets of Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 6/9–10: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of Gongyue lou 拱月楼. 6/13–14: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of Laifeng lou 来凤楼. 6/18–19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of Longxing ting 隆兴亭. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V112 Shuangxingjing 双星井 1. Village settlement Shuangxingjing is located in the streets of Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道. The town ward currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, Wu 吴, Li 李, Chen 陈, and Liu刘. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Anmin shushê 安民书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Shenyi zhu xiansheng 神医朱 先生. Right: Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets of Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V113 Anxing 安兴 1. Village settlement Anxing ward is located in Huangshi town’s streets and lanes (Huangshi jiedao) 黄石街道. The current population of this area is more than 1000 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames included the Chen 陈, Zhu 朱, Zheng 郑, Fang 方, and Wu 吴. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Anmin shangshê 安民上社 was rebuilt in 1993. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Right altar: Xingminshê 兴民社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xianshilou 仙师楼 is dedicated to Qiugong xianshi 邱公仙师. 3) Xingjingting 星井亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Xianyingci 显应祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Left altar: Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化 天尊, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官. Right altar: Hufa Jialan 护法伽蓝, Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. 5) Chongxingsi 重兴寺 is dedicated to Shijiamouni 释迦牟尼. The fragments of an early stele composed in Yanyou 3 (1316) and entitled 吴国公看转大藏 经功德记 (Stele recording the merit of Duke of the State Wu’s observing of the rotation of the Great Buddhist Canon) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:64, No. 56) are preserved at the temple. Another stele relating to the temple, the Jiajing 13 (1534) 重兴寺复修记 (Record of restorations to the Buddhist Monastery of Renewed Awakening) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:162, No. 140) is now preserved at the Guchenggong temple, which also preserves a third stele relating to the Buddhist temple, the Qianlong 48 (1783) 重塑 佛像立碑 (Stele erected to record the recarving of Buddhist images) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:253, No. 218). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets of Huangshi jiedao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
A025 Shaban qijing (Shaban sevenfold ritual alliance) 沙阪七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Shaban is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门. This area was part of the Aoshapu 鳌沙铺 (police/self defense unit) of the Jingdeli sub-canton 景德里. In the Ming, this area had a village called Shaban 沙阪. In the early Qing two other villages separated off, namely Dutou 度头 and Jindunli 金墩里. Currently the area has a population of over 7000 people, and is administered by the Shaban Administrative Village 沙坂行 政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into the seven ritual associations of Qiaotou 桥头, Xicuo 西厝, Bantou 阪头, Sheqian 社前, Shuxia 树下, Tianba 田坝, Jindun 金墩, and Longdu 龙度. Jinsha lishê 金沙里社 temple of Sheqian 社前 village is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each shê goes to the Jinsha lishê to present incense, and to invite the gods. Each year during the fifth lunar month, each shê in rotation goes to the Guchenggong temple in Huangshi to invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 back Shaban sevenfold ritual alliance to their village to watch opera. On a day determined by divination, they hold a collective procession. The main surname groups are the Jiang 蒋, Huang 黄, Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, Shen 沈 and Wu 吴. Because each lineage lives in close proximity to the others, each jing association has some members of each of the major surname groups. The main source of livelihood is agriculture, although some people work as brick layers 泥工, carpenters 木工 and stone cutters 石工. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Shaban were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V114 Qiaotou 桥头 1. Village settlement Qiaotou is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. Qiaotou village has a population of approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Jiang 蒋. The Jiang ancestor, Master Maohan 茂汉公 settled here during the late Ming Dynasty, and the Jiang have lived in the village for 20 generations from that time. There is a Jiang ancestral hall 蒋氏宗祠. Every year, there are six Fushou 福首 who are rotated into positions of responsibility. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 is co-owned with Xicuo 西厝 village, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, along with Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Jinyitang 精一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 lists 610 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/8 the gods of the Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V115 Xicuo 西厝 1. Village settlement Xicuo is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. Xicuo village has a population of approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 is located in Qiaotou 桥头, but is co-owned by Xicuo village. 2) Lingxiaodian 凌宵殿 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and in the rear hall, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/14 the gods of the Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V116 Bantou 阪头 1. Village settlement Bantou is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Bantou has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. There is a Shen ancestral hall 沈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Kaixiatang 开夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Right: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners of the shê altar 社炉 are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/15 the gods of the Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. On 2/6 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held. 
V117 Shêqian 社前 1. Village settlement Shêqian is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Shêqian has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Liao 廖 and the Chen 陈. The Zhang surname group in the village migrated from Hengtang 横塘 of Huangshi 黄石. Their genealogy 族谱 has been lost, and there are currently more than 70 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha lishê 金沙里社 (Zhongshê 忠社) was built in Guangxu 2 (1876) and renovated in 1989. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wanggong shenghou 王公圣侯 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/10 the gods of the Jinsha lishê 金沙里社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V118 Shuxia 树下 1. Village settlement Shuxia is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Shuxia currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, which is only a minority. Three fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples Jinsha Nanhu zongshê 金沙南湖宗社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the incense burners of the shê altar 社炉 are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/12 the gods of the Jinsha Nanhu zongshê 金沙南湖宗社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V119 Tianba 田坝 1. Village settlement Tianba is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Tianba currently has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Qi 祁 and the Peng 彭. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Xu 许. Two fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha dongshê 金沙东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) 后果寺 Houguo temple was a branch temple of Gufeng temple 鼓峰寺 and was built by Master Zhuren 竹仁 in the Guangxu period (1874–1908) (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/7 the gods of the Jinsha dongshê 金沙东社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V120 Jindun 金墩 1. Village settlement Jindun is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Jindun currently has more than 840 people. Agriculture is their main livelihood. 2. Surname groups Surname groups include the Huang 黄 (more than 60 households), Chen 陈 (20 households), Zheng 郑 (15 households), Li 李 (8 households), Qiu 邱 (2 households), Fang 方 (5 households). The Huang came from the Huangxia village 黄霞村 of the Hanjiang area 涵江区, and branched out to Xicuo 西厝 of Shaban 沙阪. There originally was a lineage genealogy 族谱, but it went missing. Four fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples 1) Jindunjing Xixingshê 金墩境西兴社, Jindungong 金墩宫: Rebuilt in Qing Guangxu 21 (1895), the temple was renovated in 1987. Middle altar: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Huilongtan 回龙坛 is dedicated to Linshui furen 临水夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Hualongan 化龙庵: Middle altar: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left: Weituo tianzun 韦驮天尊. Right: Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨. Middle of front: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Jishantang 积善堂 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄. 5) Guangming temple 广明寺 (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 6) Wanshn temple 万善寺 was built in Guangxu 32 (1906) and was rebuilt in 1975. (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions In the afternoon of 1/11, horses are ridden into the shê and all the neighborhoods of the entire village are inspected. Gods including Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公 元帅 go on procession, carried in sedan chairs by young men who recently got married. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. In the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi of Gucheng gong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 11/17: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime is conducted at Jishantang 积善堂. 
V121 Longdu 龙渡 1. Village settlement Longdu is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. This village is also called Yindutou 银渡头 and Cendutou 岑渡头. The village currently has more than 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Wu 吴. Other surnames include the Shen 沈, Chen 陈, and Jiang 蒋. Four fushou 福首 are rotated each year according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Aotoushê 鳌头社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhaoling zhenjun 昭灵真君, Wanggong shenghou 王公圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Jin daren 金大人, Wu daren 吴大人, Liu daren 刘大人. 2) Qingwugong 清武宫 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left: Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. To the right: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The rear hall is dedicated to Bao tianzi 鲍天子. Left altar: Xu daren 徐大人. Right altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Mingfatang 明发堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. To the sides are Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Bao tianzi 鲍天子. 4) Mingfaci 明发祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left: Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. To the right: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 5) Daonan Buddhist temple 道南寺 was built during in Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:217) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Aotoushê 鳌头社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals in the afternoon. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫 on a day determined by divination. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Bao tianzi 鲍天子 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette opera is performed. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. In the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/18: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/6: 6/24: 7/16: 8/18: 9/9: 10/27: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Mariontette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Mariontette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 rites are performed. Dengying wucun (Dengying five village ritual alliance) 登瀛五村 The five village ritual alliance of Dengying is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice gate 洋城 斗门. The area was part of the Dengyingpu 登瀛铺 (police/defense unit) of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming there were two villages here, Kengbing 坑柄 and Xiawu 下吴. In the Qing three villages separated off: Wucheng 吴埕, Chengwei 埕尾, and Keli 珂里. Currently the region is administered by the Dengying Administrative Village 登瀛行政村. The Dengying shushê 登瀛书社 temple, located in Keli 珂里 village, is the founding shê temple of the five village alliance of Dengying. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Formerly the five village alliance held a collective procession and rites, but these have not yet been revived. During the Song, this area was settled by the Wu surname 吴, and in the Ming the Wu and the Chen 陈 lineages produced examination graduates. In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) a Dengyun 登云牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Chen Ying 陈莹. In Ming Tianshun 6 (1462) a Jinshi memorial archway 进士牌坊 was set up in honor of Chen Zai 陈载. And in Ming Chenghua 1 (1465), Wu Xixian 吴希贤 was honored with a Dengying memorial archway 登瀛牌坊. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five village ritual alliance of Dengying were all members of the red banner alliance. 
V122 Wucheng 吾埕 1. Village settlement Originally called Wucheng 吴埕, the entire village has approximately 500 people. Dengying sevenfold ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Weng 翁 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu shushê 集福书社 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Longxingting 隆兴亭, Pojiegong 婆姐宫 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Right: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Back hall: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春. 3) Yulingong 毓麟宫 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Left: Linshui furen 临水夫人, Right: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 4) Wanshantang 万善堂 is dedicated to Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry forth the Dao) and then take the gods on a procession within the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫 on a day determined by divination. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V123 Chengwei 埕尾 1. Village settlement The entire village of Chengwei currently has more than 700 people, which comes to approximately 150 households. 2. Surname groups According to the survey data from 1993, there are 60–70 Zeng 曾 households, 40–50 Fang 方 households, and 30 Zhu 朱 Households. Other surnames include the Yao 姚 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Xingxianshê 兴贤社, Baoshangong 宝山宫: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Right altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 are invited to go on procession within the village territory and run through the street in the early morning 凌晨. Three Fushou 福首 are selected. Daoist masters are invited to conduct the ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/8: The birthday celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are held. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/13: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to the temple to watch opera. 
V124 Kengbing 坑柄 1. Village settlement The village of Kengbing has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingheshê 兴和社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yangxiandong 阳仙洞 is dedicated to Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Left: Sun tongzi 孙童子. Right: Hu hufa 胡护法. 3) 狮山祠 Shishanci is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江 (SJCDCB, 1992:37). 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/19, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette opera is performed. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/13–20: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/15: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted. Marionette opera is performed. Keli 珂里 1. Village settlement The village of Keli currently has 650 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. According to the survey data from 1993, there are 70–80 Chen 陈 households, 20 Qiu 邱 households, 15 Zou 邹 households, 15 Yu 余 households, 10 Zhu 朱 households, 5 Liu 刘 households, and one Cui 崔 household. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口, while the Qiu 邱 came from Gushi county 固始县 in Henan 河南 and the Zhu 朱 came from Jingpu 井埔 of Huangshi 黄石井埔. 3. Village temples Dengying shushê 登瀛书社: Co-owned by Keli 珂里, Kengbing 坑柄 and Gouweitou 沟尾头, this temple is one of the 24 Pu gong 铺宫 (Pu Temples). It was renovated both in the 1925 and in the summer of 1990. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯 and Linshui furen 临水夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village territory and run through the streets in the early morning 凌晨跑街. Four Fushou 福首 are selected. The gods are returned to the temple at night and Daoist ritual masters conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/3–5: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Gucheng gong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V126 Xiahu 下湖 1. Village settlement Xiahu was originally known as Xiawu 下吴. The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Jifu xinshê 集福新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê altars 社炉 are taken to every household to practice the Dao and to go on procession within the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated by participating in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
A027 Qingjiang Sancun (Qingjiang three village ritual alliance) 清江三村 Qingjiang is also known as Qingpu 清浦, and is located between the main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门前大沟 and the main channel in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟within the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Qingjiangpu 清江铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. The area was already developed in the Ming, and was called a qijing (sevenfold ritual alliance) at that time. The area now has over 10, 000 people, and it is divided into the three Administrative Villages of Qingzhong 清中, Qingqian 清前, and Qinghou 清后. The Beijidian 北极殿 and the Lingcigong 灵慈宫temples in Qinghou 清后 are the main overall temples of the Qingjiang three village ritual alliance. These temples are jointly managed by a temple committee made up of representatives of the three villages of the alliance and the rituals of the temples are also jointly organized. The main god of the Beijidian 北极殿 is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, while the main god of Lingcimiao 灵慈庙 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every ten years, Xuantian shangdi is taken on a procession around the three villages of the alliance. This area was famous in the Ming for producing examination graduates, and the six lineages of the Zhou 周, Weng 翁, Lin 林, Chen 陈, Huang 黄 and Zheng 郑 together had nineteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and forty-six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Zhou lineage alone produced twelve Jinshi 进士 and twenty-five Juren 举人. In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) a Dengke 登科牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Zhou Ying 周莹. In Ming Zhengtong 9 (1444) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Weng Shizi 翁世资. In Ming Zhengtong period (1436–1449) a Lianfang 联芳牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Weng lineage 翁. In Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Zhou Zhe 周哲. In Ming Chenghua 9 (1473) Qingjiang three village ritual alliance a Zhenjie 贞节牌坊 memorial archway was set up for the Zhou lineage 周. In Ming Hongzhi 9 (1496) a Xiuyi 繡衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Zhou Jinlong 周进隆. There is a Zhou Ancestral hall. The Gui Yuanci 桂苑祠 of the Zhou Lineage preserves a stele composed in Chenghua 16 (1408) entitled 清江周氏宗 祧碑铭 (Stele inscription on the Qingjiang Zhou lineage Hall of the Remote Ancesters) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 107, No. 96). The text of a stone inscription about this or a related lineage hall was composed in Zhengde 12 (1517) by Lin Jun 林俊, and is entitled 周氏西族总祠记 (Record of the main hall of the western branch of the Zhou lineage) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 141, No. 120). In the late Qing feuding banner alliances, the three village ritual alliance of Qingiang was part of the white banner alliance. 
V127 Qingzhong 清中 1. Village settlement Qingzhong is managed by the Qingzhong Administrative Village 清中行政村. The entire village currently has more than 2800 people. It is divided into Jiakou 加口, Dongqian 东前, and Qiantang 前塘. 2. Surname groups The Weng 翁 makes up 60% of the total population. There are also more than 800 of the Zheng 郑 surname group and more than forty of the Lin 林 surname group. The ancestors of the Weng are said to have emigrated from near Matou 码头 of Beigao 北高 in the Jiewai 界外 region—evacuated in the early Qing, some 300 years ago. It is said that in the past, this village achieved the extraordinary record of Sanke liujinshi 三科六 进士 (attaining six Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) in three examinations). There is currently a lineage genealogy and a large and a small ancestral hall. The ancestral tombs are in Matou 榜头 of Beigao 北高. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Weimingmiao 清江境威明庙, Qingyun shushê 清云书社 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle altar: Jiucha dashen 纠察大神, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Liutaigong 刘太公, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, and Liudajiang 六大将. 2) Baoshantang 宝山堂 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle altar: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 3) Zhenjiean 贞节庵 was built in 1916. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 4) Huisantang 会三堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 lists 851 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/20, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are taken on a procession around the village. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. This is co-hosted by Jiakou 加口 and Dongqian 东前. Each year, fifteen to twenty head persons (Touren) 头人 are selected. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the three village alliance. Every ten years, a procession within the three village alliance is held. Beginning of 10th lunar month: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of the gods of Baoshantang 宝山堂 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 
V128 Qinghou 清后 1. Village settlement Qinghou is managed by the Qinghou Administrative Village 清中行政村 The entire village currently has 3400 people. It is divided into Houtang 后塘, Dongzhou 东周, Xizhou 西周, Gelaotou 阁老头 and Xifu 四辅. 2. Surname groups The Zhou 周 makes up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. The ancestors of the Zhou emigrated from Henan 河南 province, and the Zhou are divided into two big branches: Jiyong 继勇 and Ciuqu 翠渠. The Jiyong branch is further divided into five more branches, of which the fifth branch has the most people, with approximately 400 people. There is a Jiyongci 继勇祠, which is a cultural relic under state protection 文物保护单位. There is a zucuo 祖厝 (ancestral house ) and a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Beijidian 清江境北极殿 is the main temple for Qing jiang. There is a front and a back hall. The temple is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left: Dongyue dadu and Zhusheng niangniang 东岳大帝, 注生娘娘. On the right: Sanyuan sanguan dadi 三元三官大帝. In front: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wang linggong 王灵宫, Badajiang 八大将, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. The back hall is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left: the father of the god 圣父 and the mother of the god 圣母, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Right: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Dizangwang 地藏王. This temple preserves a stele from Tongzhi 5 (1863) by Lin Shouxu 林寿煦 entitled 创建清江元天上帝殿碑 (Stele on the construction of the Temple of the Emperor of Primal Heaven in Qingjiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:324, No. 289). 2) Lingcimiao 灵慈庙 is the main temple of the village. Originally built during the Yuan Dade period (1297–1307), it is now a county-level cultural preservation site 县级文物保护单位. The temple is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Left: Gongzheng mingwang 恭正明王 (Sheji shentan 社稷神坛), Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Right: Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Front left: Baogong yuanshuai 鲍公元帅, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Zhang situ 张司徒, Jin dashi 金大使, Front right: Zucheng shengwang 祖成圣王, Majiangjun 马将军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Jin ershi 金二使. Right hall: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. (According to a local legend, the statues of Bao Yuanshuai, Jin Jiangjun and Zhang Situ were said to have been brought back to the village by one Zhou Rong 周荣, an ancestor of the Zhou, as he returned to his hometown after holding the office of Zhifu (Prefect) 知府 somewhere in Jiangxi province. Jin Jiangjun was a monster. Bao Yuanshuai and Zhang Situ followed the monster down into a deep pond and died. Afterwards, they told their story to Zhou Rong in a dream. Zhou Rong drew the portraits of these three deities and placed the portraits in the local temple. When Zhou Rong was returning home after retirement, the tides were so high that he was unable to go back home. He remembered the dream, and brought the portraits back with him to Putian. This is why Tianhougong 天后宫 has statues of these three gods). 3) Chongxia tang 崇夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian mayuanshuai 五显马元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims 1011 initiates. 4) Qingyunshê 清云社 is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jiucha yuanshuai 纠察元帅. 6) Qingyongsi 清永寺 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Dongzhou 东周 invites Baogong yuanshuai 鲍公元帅, Jin Jiangjun 金将军 and Zhang Situ 张司徒 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. Opera is performed for two days. Each year, ten people take turns, rotating into position according to age, to be the host of the ritual (the Fushou). On 1/9, Xizhou 西周 invites Zucheng shengwang 祖成圣王 and Gongzheng mingwang 恭正明王 to go on procession within their territory. Opera is performed. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. Each year, two people take turns, rotating according to age, to be the host (Fushou). On 1/10, Gelaotou 阁老头 and Sifu 四辅 invite Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on procession within their territory. Opera is performed. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 1/13, Houtang 后塘 takes the gods of Jiuchamiao 纠察庙on a procession within their territory. Later the date was changed to 1/10. On 1/13, a general Yuanxiao 元宵 festival is held. On 1/26, the Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums) of Qingyunshê 清云社 perform feats of impervious   ness to pain by stepping into the flames of a massive Roman candle 冲花. After the bell drums have sounded and the spells have been recited, the fireworks are lit and the Shentong 神童 (spirit medium) charges into the flames with his chest bared. Currently, the Fushou take turns according to age to be the head host. Each year, there are ten Fushou selected from Dongzhou 东周 and two from Xizhou 西周. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct Yuanxiao 元宵 rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Chongxiatang 崇夏堂. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. These events are organized by the three villages of Qingjiang. Every 10 years, the gods are carried in a procession around the three villages. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the entire village. 3/26: The birthday celebration of Baogong yuanshuai 鲍公元帅, Jinjiangjun 金将军and Zhangsitu 张司徒. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fourth branch of the Zhou 周. 4/25: The birthday celebration of Zucheng shengwang 祖成圣王. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Chongxiatang 崇夏堂. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Gongzheng mingwang 恭正明王. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the entire village. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Zhou 周 of Gelaotou 阁老头 and Sifu 四辅. 10/10: The birthday celebration of the gods of Jiuchamiao 纠察庙. These events are organized by the Qianhoutang 前后塘. 10/28: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 Rituals of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts are held at the Chongxiatang 崇夏堂. Three in One Scripture Masters (or Daoist ritual masters) 师公 are invited in groups of five to seven. 
V129 Qingqian 清前 1. Village settlement Qingqian is managed by the Qingqian Administrative Village 清前行政村. The village has approximately 4000 people, and includes four natural villages: Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Houdu 后度, and Xiaoqiaotou 小桥头. Each village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups In the village, the Lin 林 and the Weng 翁 are the majority. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Xu 徐, and Huang 黄. The Weng have the same ancestors as do the Weng living in Qingzhong 清中. The Lin have approximately 1500 people. It is said that their ancestors begged their way to Putian from Henan province 河南 and Anhui province 安徽. Their ancestral tombs are in the Lingnanpu 岭南浦 of Huian 惠安. Each year, representatives are sent to Hui’an to commemorate their ancestors. The Lin of the village are divided into four big branches: Dongfang 东房, Xifang 西房, Houcuofang 后厝房, and Chaomi huafang 炒米花房, of which the Dongfang branch has the most people, with approximately 300. There currently exists an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Zhongyougong 清江境忠佑宫 is the main temple of the village and was rebuilt in Daoguang 17 (1837) and again in 1986. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 (Aotouma 鳌头妈). Front left: Xiao jiangjun 肖将军, Sanye 三爷. Right altar: Li jiangjun 李将军, Siye 四爷. 2) Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is located in Houdu 后度. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is subdivided into Dongshê 东社, Xishê 西社, and Zhongshê 中社. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Zongaotang 宗鳌堂 was built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–1566). Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Puzhaosi 普照寺 was originally called Xiaoqiaoan 小桥庵, and was built in the Yuan Dynasty by Zhou Xinjian 周心鑑. The Buddhist monastery was rebuilt as the Puzhaosi in Ming Tianqi 5 (1625) by Zhou Rupan 周如磐. There currently exists a stele dated Qianlong 31 (1766) called Chongxiu puzhaoqiao beiji 重修普照桥碑记. The front hall is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The back hall is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦文佛. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, The Xu 徐 of Dongshê 东社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. Opera is performed. One Three in One Scripture Master is invited. Each year, four people take turns, rotating according to age, to become hosts 福首 (Fushou). On 1/16, the Wu 吴 of Zushê 祖社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Houdu 后度. One scripture master 经师 is invited. On 1/17–18, the Lin 林 of Zhongshê 中社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Dongzhi and Xizhi 西 至. Opera is performed. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited. Each year, five people are selected to be the host of the ritual. On 1/18, the Weng 翁 of Xishê 西社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Xiaoqiaotou 小桥头. Opera is performed. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited. Each year, five people are selected to be the Fushou. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Zongaotang 宗鳌堂. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the three shê alliance. Every ten years, the god is taken on a procession around the three villages of Qingjiang 清江. 4/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xishê 西社. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongshê 中社. Opera is performed for two days. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed for two days. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Zongaotang 宗鳌堂. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Zongaotang 宗鳌堂. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the three-fold shê. 11th lunar month: on a day determined by divination, 下元普度 Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 in groups of nine, and a Ritual Space of the Dao (daochang) 道场 is set up. Marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed for two days. 
A028 (
V130 Xihong liushê (Xihong six shê ritual alliance) 西洪六社 Xihong 西洪) 1. Village settlement Xihong is a natural village as well as an administrative village. Xihong is stretched out along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This was part of the Xihongpu 西洪铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. Xihong was already a large village in the Ming dynasty. Currently Xihong has over 6000 people, and is divided into three neighborhoods: Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至 and Zhonggu 中谷, all of which are managed by the Xihong Administrative Village 西洪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to lineage into six shê ritual associations. The six shê of the ritual alliance of Xihong were all part of the black banner alliance at the end of the Qing. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 许, Li 李, and Chen 陈. There are also the smaller surnames of Guo 郭, Lin 林, Xie 谢. 1200 villagers are surnamed Xu 许 and live in Dongzhi 东至, 2000 are surnamed Li 李 and live in Dongzhi 东至 and Zhonggu 中谷, 1200 are surnamed Chen 陈 and live in Zhonggu 中谷 and Xizhi 西至, 600 are surnamed Guo 郭 and live in Dongzhi 东至, 380 are surnamed Lin 林 and live in Zhonggu 中谷, approximately 200 are surnamed Xie 谢 and live in Zhonggu 中谷. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾 and there currently exists an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. The Chen 陈 emigrated from Kuokou 阔口 of Putian 莆田 and are divided into two branches: Houzhi 后至 and Zhongjian 中间. The Houzhi branch has approximately 800 people while the Zhongjian branch has approximately 400 people. The Xu emigrated from Jiewai 界外 and are divided into two branches: Qianfang 前房 and Houcuo 后厝. There is an ancestral hall which is used as a school now. The Guo 郭 are divided into two branches: the head branch has more than 500 people while the second branch has approximately 100 people. There is an ancestral hall. The Xu 许 emigrated from Yangcheng 洋埕, and has one branch and one ancestral hall. The Xie 谢 has no branches. 3. Village temples 1) Yuxijing Yuxici 玉溪境玉溪祠: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, this is the main temple for the six shê ritual alliance of Xihong. It was originally built during the Jiajing period (1522–66), and was rebuilt in 1983. It is one of the four famous temples of Putian. The temple is dedicated to the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩). Secondary gods include Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Li Mingdeng 李明灯, Lu Wenhui 卢文辉. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀, Wenchang dijun 文昌 帝君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. Middle hall is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Huiqing xianshi 惠庆 先师, Wenyuanshuai 温元帅, Kangyuanshuai 康元帅, Mayuanshuai 马元帅,Xihong six shê ritual alliance Zhaoyuanshuai 赵元帅. Rear hall is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Side altars: Yuzhu tianzun 玉珠天尊, Leibu tianzun 雷部天尊, Lingguan tianzun 灵官天尊, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 states that there are 500 initiates. 2) Xingfushê 兴福社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, this temple belongs to the Xu 许. Middle: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 3) Fuxingshê 福兴社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, this temple belongs to the Li 李. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang司马圣王, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 4) Fuanshê 福安社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, it belongs to the Guo 郭. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 5) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, it belongs to the Li 李. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 6) Shangxianshê 上贤社: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, it belongs to the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is lifted up during the Yuanxiao processions. 7) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: Located in Xizhi 西至, it belongs to the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 8) Mingdean 明德庵 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 9) Yaofeng temple 遥丰寺. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 10) Mingdaotang 明道堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1331 initiates. 11) Mingdeng zuci 明登祖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 880 initiates. 12) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 950 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Fuxingshê 福兴社 invites Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/8, Xingfushê 兴福社 invites Baima xianggong 白马相公 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/10, Shangxianshê 上贤社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within Zhonggu 中谷. On 1/11, Fuanshê 福安社 invites Baima xianggong 白马 相公 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/12, Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within Zhonggu 中谷. On 1/16, a common Yuanxiao celebration is held. Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is invited to go on procession within the entire village. The beating of the gongs and the carrying of the sedan chairs are left to the children. The adults lead the way. One to three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. A daochang 道场 Daoist altar is set up. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for three days. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Opera is performed for two days. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. Opera is performed for three days. The god is taken on procession around the entire village. 5/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. Opera is performed for two days. 7/28: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 of Yuxici 玉溪祠. Opera is performed for two days. Seven scripture master are invited. A daochang 道场 is set up and the Jiao is constructed 建醮. The Three in One temples of every region send representatives to participate. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinxian shushê 兴贤书社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the entire three shê alliance. 9/3: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社. Opera is performed for two days. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê 福安社. Opera is performed for two days. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingfushê 兴福社. Opera is performed for two days. 10/29: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted. Water lanterns 水灯 are released using boats. Food and offerings are placed at unclean places (where there are water ghosts). Marionette versions of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed for two days. Services are done for all the villagers who died an unnatural death. Five to seven Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. In the 11th lunar month: on a day determined by divination, Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 in groups of nine, and a Ritual Space of the Dao (daochang) 道场 is set up. Marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed for two days. 
A029 Qiaodou wucun (Qiandou five village ritual alliance) 桥兜五村 The five-fold village ritual alliance of Qiaodou is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This area was part of the Ninghaipu 宁海铺 and the Dongwupu 东吴铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里, and the Yudai Xilipu 余埭西利铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming, this area had two villages: Xiadai 下埭 and Ninghai 宁海 (Qiaodou 桥兜) and in the early Qing, three more villages separated off; these were Xiajiangtou 下江头 in Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton and Xili 西利 and Yudai 余埭 in Putianli 莆田里 sub-canton. The Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 temple, located in Qiaodou 桥兜 village, is the main temple for the five village ritual alliance. The main god is Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Each year in the beginning of the second lunar month, the five villages hold a collective procession and rites in honor of Jiaocha dashen. There were no examination graduates from this region, and the origins of the different surname groups are rather complex, but each surname maintains its own relatively independent settlement, so each village has its own main surname group. In the late Qing feuding banner alliance, the villages of Qiaodou 桥兜 and Xiadai 下埭 were part of the red banner alliance, while Xiajiangtou 下江头 and Yudai 余埭 were part of the black banner alliance, and Xili 西利 was part of the white banner alliance. 
V131 Qiaodou 桥兜 1. Village settlement Qiaodou was originally called Ninghai 宁海. Qiadou is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村. Qiaodou village currently has more than 1000 people. A stele composed in Wanli 25 (1597) entitled 重修宁海桥碑铭 (Carved stele on the restoration of the Ninghai bridge) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:188, No. 166) is preserved by the side of the rebuilt bridge. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 and the Cai 蔡 each has more than 200 people. Other surname groups include the Kang 康, Chen 陈, Lin 林 and Wu 吴. The Cai emigrated from Xiaohu 孝户 of Zhenqian 镇前, while the Wu emigrated from Jiangdong 江东. The Zheng are divided into three branches: Xincuo 新厝, Gucuo 古厝, and Houzhan 后站, of which the Xincuo and Gucuo branches are Christians.Qiaodou five village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Jiucha dutang 纠察都堂. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Fushangong 福山宫, Shangyuanshê 上元社: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Guanyinlou 观音楼 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Qinganan 清泉庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Fushan gong 福山 宫 and Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 2/2–3, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 is invited to go on procession within the village as well as in villages such as Xiajiangtou 下江头, Xiadai 下埭, Xili 西利, and Yudai 余埭. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted for the hungry ghosts. Marionette plays are performed 
V132 Xiajiangtou 下江头 1. Village settlement Xiajiangtou is managed by the Xiajiangtou Administrative Village 下江头行政村. Xiajiangtou village currently has more than 2500 people, 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖 with 700 people, the Wu 吴 with 600, the Yang 杨 with over 500, the Weng 翁 with over 300, and the Yao 姚 with over 200 people. Other surname include the Chen 陈, Cheng 程, and the Lin 林. According to legend, the Xiao ancestors were stone masons 石匠 who emigrated from Huian 惠安 at the time of the construction of the Ninghai bridge 宁海桥. The Xiao are divided into two branches: Houzhi 后至 and Touqian 头前. There currently exists a common ancestral hall. The ancestral tombs are in the Hugong mountains 壶公山. The Wu are divided into five branches. They used to have an ancestral hall, but it has been transformed into residential houses. The Weng emigrated from Zhenqian 镇前 and they have lived in the village for five generations. The Weng are divided into two branches: Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. Their ancestral hall is in Qingjiang 清江. 3. Village temples 1) Xiajiangjing Baoshangong 霞江境宝山宫: This temple branched off from the Fushangong 福山宫; it was originally built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–66) and rebuilt in Xianfeng 11 (1861). It was renovated in 1946 and in 1987. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 迦罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Nezha taizi 哪吒太子, and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 2) Wenshengshê 文盛社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Xiajiangjing Longxiantan 霞江境隆显坛 is the main temple of the village. Originally built in Qianlong 30 (1765), it was rebuilt twice: in Daoguang 22 (1842), and in 1932. It was later renovated in 1986. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. Front: Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Baozhou zumiao 宝洲祖庙 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 was rebuilt during the Republican period. Middle: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君, Wuxian dadi 五显 大帝, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Lixianshi 李先师, Kongdaren 孔大人, Wengwudao 翁吾道, Linzhenming 林真明, Wanglingguan 王灵官, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 790 initiates. 6) Xiajiangjing Huiyuntan 霞江境惠云坛 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府 大神, Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Side altars: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Zhengxingtan 正兴坛 is dedicated to Lufu Xianggong 鲁府相公, Side altars: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8) Daxinting 达心亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Zhichengtan 至诚坛 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the Xiao 肖 take the incense burners of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Nezha taizi 哪吒太子 of Baoshangong 宝山宫on a procession. People take turns to be the head host according to their age. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 2/2, a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the Weng 翁, Wu 吴, Yang 杨, and the Yao 姚. Local Shentong 神童 spirit mediums strike themselves with an iron mace 打铁球. The selection of the Shentong 神童 spirit medium is arbitrary and spontaneous: those who beat the drum and chant spells and have a god descend into them become shentong 神童 spirit mediums. These events are organized by the board of directors of Longxian tang 隆显堂 together with the person responsible for each surname group in each village. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette operas are performed. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the Yang 杨. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites These events are organized by the Chen 陈. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/4–5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites These activities are co-organized by Huiyuntan 惠云坛 and Zhengxingtan 正兴坛. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites These events are organized by the Yang 杨. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime rites are conducted at the Mingxiatang 明夏堂. Marionette versions of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three Scripture masters are invited. 
V133 Xiadai 下埭 1. Village settlement Xiadai is managed by the Xiadai Administrative Village 下埭行政村. Xiadai village currently has more than 2300 people. Xiadai is divided into two neighborhoods: Dongzhi 东至 and Xizhi 西至. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhou 周, Lin 林 and the Wu 武. According to the survey data from 1993, there are more than 1500 of the Zhou surname group, making up approximately 30% of the total population, and more than 500 of the Lin surname group, and more than 150 of the Wu surname group. The Zhou emigrated from Qingpu 清浦 and are divided into six branches. They originally had an ancestral hall, but it has been converted into a school. Their genealogy is in Qingpu 清浦. The Lin emigrated from Chizhu 赤柱 of Putian 莆田, and are divided into two branches: Qianlin 前林 and Houlin 后林. The Weng emigrated from Zhanglin 樟林 of Quqiao 渠桥. They have not divided into lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Xiadaijing Jinshangong下埭境金山宫 branched out from the Fushangong 福山宫, and is the main temple for the village. Originally built during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), it was rebuilt both during the Qianlong period (1736–1795) and in 1989. Middle: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Denggong yuanshuai 邓公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiegong yuanshuai 铁公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Linshui furen 淋水夫人, Lindan furen 淋丹夫人, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Xiadaijing Wenxingshushê 下埭境文兴书社, Wenchang shuyuan 文昌 书院 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wuxian faye 五显 法爷, Chensheng faye 陈圣法爷, Huangsheng faye 黄圣法爷, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1205 initiates. 4) Baoshengshê 保盛社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Xinxianshê 新贤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen后土夫人. 6) Longdetan 隆德坛: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huangshêren 黄舍人, Baisheren 白舍人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tongziban 童子班, Daye 大爷. 7) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. 8) Ruicaoan 瑞草庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Zhou 周, Wu 武 and Jin 金 of Dongzhi 东至 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 1/13, the Lin 林 of Baoshengshê 宝胜社 of Xizhi 西至 carry their shê-altar incense burners to each of their households to xingdao 行道. Fufan 福饭 (blessed rice) is distributed to each household. On 1/14, the Lin 林 of Xingxian shê 兴贤社 of Xizhi 西至 take their shê incense burners to each of their households to xingdao 行道. Fufan 福饭 (blessed rice) is distributed to each household. On 1/29–2/1, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 are invited to go on procession around the entire village. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. People take turns to be the host (Fushou) according to their age. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for one day. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two day. These events are organized by miscellaneous surnames group 杂姓. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lin 林 of Xizhi 西至. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the second branch of the Zhou 周. The birthday celebration of Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fifth branch of the Zhou 周. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for one day. 7/23: 8/12: 9/20: 10/29: 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fourth branch of the Zhou 周. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wenxing shushê 文兴书社. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinxianshê 新贤社. Opera is performed for two days. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 at Ruichao’an 瑞草庵. Marionette plays are performed. The birthday celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lin 林 of Xizhiwei 西至尾. Xili 西利 1. Village settlement Xili is managed by the Xili Administrative Village 西利行政村. Xili village has approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 make up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Tang 唐 and the Dai 戴. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾, and are divided into six lineage branches. Currently, only the first, second, fourth and sixth branch exists. The sixth branch makes up 80% of the Li population, and has two ancestral halls. The Li genealogy is in Yangwei 洋尾. Each year, four people take turns according to age to be the Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Xilijing Xianxinggong 西利境显兴宫 was taken apart in 1958 for the smelting of steel and metal, but it has been rebuilt recently. Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qiwei muhua niangma 七位木花娘妈. On the side altars: Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯 (Zhubajie 猪八戒), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xilijing Yongqingshê 西利境永庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯, Yinglie shengwang 英烈 圣王. 3) Sanyi tang 三一堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Side altars: Jindaren 金大人, Kongdaren 孔大人. 4) Xilai chansi 西来禅寺: Originally subsidiary to Guanghuasi 广化寺, it has been rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Dizangwang 地藏王, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the gods of Yongqing shê 永庆社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 of Hushan mountain 壶公山 to invite the incense 请香 of the Jade Emperor back to their village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Opera is performed for two days. 4/23: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Marionette plays are performed. 5/16: Villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 of Hushan mountain 壶公山 to invite the incense 请香 of the Jade Emperor back to their village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Qiwei muhua shengmu 七位木花圣母. Each household prepares flowers and burns incense. Opera is performed for two days. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. 
V135 Yudai 余埭 1. Village settlement Yudai is part of the Xili Administrative Village 西利 行政村. The entire village currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The Yu 余 make up more than 85% of the total population. Other surnames include the Lin 林 and the Li 李. The Yu are divided into the head branch 头房, the second branch 二房 and the third branch 三房. There currently exists an ancestral hall and an ancestral cuo 祖厝 (ancestral house). Their ancestral tombs are near the Baiyunguan 白云观 on Hugong mountain 壶公山. 3. Village temples 1) Jingjiangjing Yongshougong 鲸江境永受宫, Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 is dedicated to Xietian shangdi 协天上帝, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓. Side altars: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhangshun shenghou 张顺圣侯, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Jingjiangjing Yinglingmiao 鲸江境英灵庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 3) Jingjiangjing Haininggong 鲸江境海宁宫 was built in 1937 and is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳. 4) Changmingsi 长明寺 is dedicated to Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to xingdao 行道 in every household. On 1/23, Weiwan 尾晚 (the last night) of Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession around the village. Lanterns goes on procession around the village territory, and one Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/23: the birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A030 Lindun sancun (Lindun three village ritual alliance) 林墩 三村 The three village ritual alliance of Lindun is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前 大沟. This area was part of the Lindunpu 林墩铺 and the Huxi Dongtingpu 浒西东亭铺, both of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, this area had the village of Lindun 林墩. In the Qing, the villages of Jiangxi 江西 and Longhua 龙华 separated off. The Wenxinggong 文兴宫 temple, located in Lindun 林墩 village, is the main temple of the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and the secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou Lindun three village ritual alliance xingjun 北斗星君 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Each year in the second half of the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the gods of the Wenxinggong are taken on a procession to the three villages of the alliance. This area was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming. The three lineages of the Fang 方, Hong 洪 and Chen 陈 together produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eleven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), an Investigating Censor 监察御史 set up a Qunlong (Grouped Dragons) 群龙牌坊 memorial archway for the Fang lineage 方. In Chenghua 22 (1486) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway for Ding Yong 丁镛. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, Lindun 林墩 was part of the black banner alliance, while Jiangxi 江西 and Longhua 龙华 were part of the white banner alliance. It is said that Lindun was originally part of the white banner alliance, but because of a feud with Jiangxi village, it joined in with the three village ritual alliance of Donghua 东华 for support, and so entered the black banner alliance. 
V136 Lindun 林墩 1. Village settlement Lindun is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村. Lindun village currently has more than 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Fang 方, making up 20% of the entire population. Other surnames include the Wang 王, Hong 洪, Cai 蔡, Chen 陈 and Huang 黄. It is said that the village was originally occupied by the Lin 林. However, when asked for a divine dream 仙梦, the Lin dreamed that they were oppressed by the Fang. Thus the Lin moved to Fuzhou 福州. The Fang are divided into four branches. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it was destroyed. 3. Village temples 1) Linpu shengjing Wenxinggong 林埔胜境文兴宫 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Side altars: Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 2) Changshoushê 长寿社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lizhangzhe 李长者. 3) Gonghuan 拱壶庵 is dedicated to Miaodao Ciji zhenjun 妙道慈济真君. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Magong shengjun 马公圣君, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣. 4) Guanyingge 观音阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars: Shancai 善才, Longnü 龙女, Milefo 弥勒佛. 5) Zongkongci 宗孔祠, Nantang Qigongci 南塘戚公祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuozhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the Fang 方 and the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 each separately prepare offerings to pray for good fortune at the Wenxinggong 文兴宫 and at the Changshoushê 长寿社. On 1/16, the Wang 王 prepares offerings to worship at the Wenxinggong 文兴宫 and the Changshoushê 长寿社. In the second half of the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 ritual is held for the entire village. Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Magong shengjun 马公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 are invited to go on procession for two days. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct rituals. Each year, one person is selected by divination to be the head host (Fushou 福首). Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Magong shengju 马公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/3: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are conducted at the Zongkongci 宗孔祠. Three in one Scripture masters 经师 conduct the service 超度. Marionette operas are performed. Offerings are prepared by the every household. 各户备 供品. Lindun used to be part of the white banner alliance. The people of Jiangdong 江东 were caught stealing beans from Lindun, and they had to pay for the performance of operas in Lindun as part of their punishment. The Jiangdong (white banner) people retaliated by attacking Lindun. Lindun resisted their attack, and sought help from Donghua 东华 (black banner). Thus, Lindun became part of the black banner alliance. 
V137 Jiangxi 江西 1. Village settlement Jiangxi is part of the Jiangdong Administrative Village 江东行政村. Jiangxi village currently has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴, Wang 王, Li 李, and Huang 黄. The Wu in the village are the Wu of Wujiao 梧郊吴, and they emigrated from Wujiao 梧郊 of Hanjiang 涵江. There are currently more than 100 people, divided into two branches. The Wang came from Jiangxi 江西, the Li came from Duotou 哆头, and the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞. 3. Village temples 1) Huxijing Qingyunmiao 浒西境青云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Baidaren 白大人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Xinyishê 新义社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Xinfuci 新福祠 is also known as Zhiyitang 植义堂. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun jiangjun 白牙将军 are invited to go on a procession around the village. The temple distributes cookies to the community (Fendingbing 分丁饼), and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 
V138 Longhua 龙华 1. Village settlement Longhua is also called Longpi 龙皮 or Longguan 龙官. Longhua is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村. Longhua village currently has more than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 makes up 60% of the village population. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Huang 黄, Fang 方 and Zheng 郑. The Lin are divided into Donglin 东林 and Xilin 西林 lineage branches. Each branch had their own ancestral hall, but these no longer exist. Their ancestral tombs are in the Hugong mountains 壶公山. It is said that in the past, there were people who preached the Dao 讲道 in the village (the Longhua religion 龙华教), and that when it rained, they would take a walk around Chengzhong 埕中, and there would be no raindrops in the circle where they had walked. Thus the villagers are very pious Buddhists and Daoists, and the place is known as “Ergong sancitang shibacuo ershisanfotang” (literally meaning two temples, three ancestral halls, eighteen old homes, and twentythree Buddhist halls, signifying that there are a lot of religious buildings) 二宫三祠堂十八厝二十三佛堂. The entire village has always been vegetarian, and no one raises pigs or chicken. There are several Buddhist nunneries and retreats in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Lianjiangjing Xianyingmiao 连江境显应庙: Originally built in the Song Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: imperially granted 敕封 (title) Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯. Side altars: Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Chengong taifu 陈公太府, Zhuogong taibao 卓公太保, Yanggong yuanshuai 杨公元帅. 2) Xinxingshê 新兴社 was built recently, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhaode shengfei 昭德圣妃. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Panggong shenghou 庞公 圣侯 is carried on a procession around the village. In the morning of the 15th, the roadways are sealed against demonic influences. The gods are escorted back to the temple. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 请道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/17: The birthday celebration of Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 2/28: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 7/17: The birthday celebration of Zhuogong taibao 卓公太保. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 
A031 Jiangdong shiershê (Jiangdong twelve shê ritual alliance) 江东十二社 (
V139 Jiangdong 江东 ) 1. Village settlement Jiangdong, also known as Gangdong 巷东 and Pukou 浦口, is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This area was part of the Houjiangpu 垕江铺 (police/defense unit) of Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton. According to the villagers’ legends, Jiangdong village was originally a tidal flat, and the place was called Pukou 浦口 (river mouth). In the past, the main livelihood of the Jiangdong people was fishing, so their boats are all moored by the sea side, thus the place was also called Wanchuanqian (meaning ten thousand boats in the front) 万船前. The entire village currently has more than 6000 people, and they are divided into four neighborhoods: Dongza 东杂, Xiza 西杂, Zhongjing 中境, and Yijing 义境. All of these areas are managed by the Jiangdong Administrative Village 江东行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into twelve shê ritual associations on the basis of different surnames. The Pukougong 浦口宫 of Jiangdong is the main overall temple of the twelve shê ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the shê alliances of Jiangdong were all part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up more than 50% of the overall village population, while the Qi 祁 make up approximately 30%. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, Jiang 江, Chen 陈, and Lin 林. The Wu in the village are divided into five branches: Huanlang 环浪, Xiaoyou 孝友, Xiaoli 小立, Sanshan 三山, and Dongjiao 东角. Each branch has a different origin and distinct ancestral halls. Their main ancestral hall is in Huangshi 黄石. The Huanlang branch of the Wu 环浪吴 makes up approximately 30% of the Wu, and they are from Huangshi, and belong to the Tuntian Wu 屯田吴. There branch has an ancestral hall, which serves as the 老人会 Old Persons Association of the neighborhood. The Qi emigrated from Taiyuan city 太原 in Shanxi 山西 province to Putian. Their ancestral tombs are in Huating 华亭. The Qi of the village are divided into four branches: Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Gounan 沟南, and Goubei 沟北. 3. Village temples 1) Fude dongshê 福德东社: Main god: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Houjiangjing Pukougong 垕江境浦口宫 is divided into Yongxing zhongshê 永兴中社 (the Wu 吴), Yongxing qianshê 永兴前社 (the Chen 陈), Yongxing houshê 永兴后社 (the Wu 吴), Yongxing yishê 永兴义社 (the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈), Xinxing yishê 信兴义社 (the Wu 吴), Fude Jiangdong twelve shê ritual alliance dongshê 福德东社 (the Qi 祁), Fude xishê 福德西社 (the Lin 林), Huangxing sishê 黄兴祀社 (the Huang 黄), Taipingshê 太平社 (the Zhu 朱), Dongli jiahe 东里家社 (the Zheng 郑), Dongchun shangshê 东春上社 (miscellaneous surnames 杂姓), Xinan shoushê 新安寿社 (miscellaneous surnames 杂姓). There are 12 shê ritual associations in total. Apparently, there used to also be a Heshangshê “和尚社” (Buddhist monk ritual association), but now it no longer exists. Middle altar: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Jiang meifei 江梅妃, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jiang guojiu 江国舅, Wu zhenren 吴真人. Right altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君. Jiang Meifei is a figure of local Putian legend who is said to have been summoned to the court during the Tang due to her great beauty. The temple preserves several stelae, including: 1) Jiaqing 16 (1811) 重修浦口宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:284, No. 248); 2) three stelae composed in Jiaqing 18 (1813) entitled 重修浦口宫题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:285–289, No. 249, 250, 251); 3) Guangxu 3 (1877) 重修浦口宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:333, No. 297); and 4) three inscriptions entitled 重修浦口宫题捐芳 名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:334–337, No. 298, 299, 300) 3) Feiyunmiao 飞云庙 belongs to Zhongjing 中境 and Xiza 西杂 neighborhoods. Originally built prior to the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), it was renovated during the Qing Jiaqing period (1796–1820). The temple is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Right: Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. This temple preserves a stele from Jiaqing 15 (1810) entitled 飞云庙捐置祀业碑 (Stele on contributions leading to the establishment of a fund for sacrifices at the Flying Cloud Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 275, No. 240). 4) Shenqingmiao 神庆庙 belongs to Dongza 东杂 and Yijing 义境 neighborhoods. The main god is Sima shengwang司马圣王. 5) Huluyan 葫芦岩 belongs to Huanlang 环浪 neighborhood. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 6) Dongchen xunshê 东春巡社 belongs to Dongza 东杂 neighborhood. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Mingxiatang 明霞堂 (Wanxiangci 万像祠) belongs to Xiza 西杂 neighborhood, and is the main temple for the Three in One religion 三一教 of Jiangdong village. The temple was rebuilt in 1986. In the main hall on the middle altar is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 (two statues). Right: Hufa longtian 护法龙天 (two statues). The left hall is dedicated to Qianshou Guanyin 千手观音. Front: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. The right hall is dedicated to Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 claims that there are 480 initiates. 8) Dongshangci 东上祠 belongs to Yijing 义境 neighborhood, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Hufa longtou 护法龙头, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. 9) Zhongshangci 中上祠 belongs to Huanlang 环浪 neighborhood, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Sanyidong 三一洞 is dedicated to Jin daren 金大人. Left: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Right: Li daye 李大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷. 11) Jixinge 即心阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝, Jintong 金童, Yunü 玉女. 12) Feiyanfu 飞燕府 is dedicated to the Wuwei daren 五位大人. These are the Xinghua Prefectural Commanding General Kong Zhouxi 兴化总兵孔 兆熙, who died while fighting pirates in Ming Jiajing 41 (1562), and his four generals. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 13) Zhongtianci 中天祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 claims that there are 820 initiates. 14) Qiaotouci 桥头祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 claims that there are 520 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, each shê displays offerings of fruit in the Pukougong 浦口宫 temple. Opera is performed right after the offering. On 1/7, Jiangguojiu 江国舅, Jiang Meifei 江梅妃, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qiansiniang 钱四娘 are carried in a procession around the entire village. Every time that Zhongjing 中境 is the host (once every 6–7 years), the main god, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, is taken on a procession around the entire village. On 1/10–12 each shê requests the incense burners from Pukougong 浦口宫 temple, and takes them on a procession within their own territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7: The birthday celebration of Jiang guojiu 江国舅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 2/1: The birthday celebration of the Wuwei daren 五位大人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar second month, a procession of the Wuwei daren is held. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/9: 4/16: 4/26: 5/13: 7/16: 7/23: 8/16: 8/25: 10/29: 
A032 (
V140 The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed in Xiza 西杂 and Zhongjing 中境 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Jiang Meifei 江梅妃. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed in Huanlang 环浪 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed in Dongza 东杂 and Yijing 义境 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed in Dongza 东杂 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Another celebration of Jiang Meifei 江梅妃. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites are held. Three Sanyijiao 三一教 Scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct the rituals. Marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Haibin wujia (Haibin five jia ritual alliance) 海滨五甲 Haibin 海滨) 1. Village settlement Haibin is located alongside the coastal tidal sea dikes on the Mulan 木兰 river. During the early Qing the village was “beyond the borders 界外”, and was forcibly evacuated. Haibin was part of the Donghuapu 东华铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. Haibin village took shape in the Qing dynasty. The entire village currently has more than 3000 people, and is divided into five settlement clusters: Touqian 头前, Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Dacuoli 大厝里 and Zhongcuo 中厝, all of which are under the management of the Haibin Administrative Village 海滨 行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up basically according to the settlement clusters into five jia ritual associations. Each year these ritual associations select twenty-four Fushou 福首 to organize the ritual activities of the year. Dongzhi 东至 and Xizhi 西至 each nominate six Fushou, while Haibin five jia ritual alliance the other three jia each nominate four people each. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five jia alliance of Haibin was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups Huang 黄 is the only surname. It is said that the village originally had some minor surnames, but they all changed their surnames to the Huang surname in recent years. According to the “Huang genealogy of Haibin” 海滨黄氏族谱, the Huang migrated to Putian 莆田 during the Tang Dynasty. Originally, they mainly settled in Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江. They later migrated to Haibin 海滨, and have been living there for approximately twenty generations. The Huang are divided into five branches: Touqian 头前, Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Dacuoli 大厝里, and Zhongcuo 中厝 of which Dongzhi and Xizhi together make up approximately 50% of the population, while the Zhongcuo branch makes up 19%, the Dacuoli 大厝里 branch 21%, and the Touqiancuo 头前厝 branch 10%. There is a main ancestral hall, which is now the village committee 村委会 headquarters. Each branch has their own zucuo (ancestral house) 祖厝, where the corpses of the recently deceased are temporarily placed. They function as mortuaries (Taipingjian) 太平间 until the deceased can be buried. 3. Village temples 1) Jingjiangjing Chunqiu yishê 京江境春秋义社 is the main temple for Haibin 海滨. Originally belonged to the Hong 洪, it is now owned by the Huang 黄. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Banshan daxian 半山大仙, Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 2) Xingxun zushê 兴巡祖庙 is the main temple of Haibin Wujia: Main gods: Jiang daren 江大人, Bai daren 白大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Zhu daren 朱大人, Tian daren 田大人. Secondary gods: Duchayuan yushi 都察院御史, Zhongjun 中军, Baban 八班. 3) Shanbentang 善本堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. Front secondary god: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Xuzhongjun 许中军 and Lizhongjun 李中军. 4) Xingxunmiao 兴巡庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Jiang daren 江大人, Bai daren 白大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Zhu daren 朱大人, Tian daren 田大人. 5) Dongzhenci 东镇祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Xianqingsi 仙庆寺, Qingshantang 庆善堂: Rebuilt in 1988, the temple is co-owned by Haibin 海滨, Jiangdong 江东, Donghua 东华, Donghua 东甲, and Zhelang 遮浪. Front hall: Main gods: Shijia wenfo 释加文佛, Sanjiuku pusa 三救苦菩萨. Secondary gods: Left: Weituo 韦陀. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. Front right: Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉. Rear hall (Qingshantang 庆善堂): Main god: Milefo 弥勒佛. Secondary gods: Left: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenshu pusa 文殊菩萨, Puxian pusa 普贤菩萨. Right: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. Right side hall: Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 7) Longdetang 隆德堂 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8) Jufumiao 聚福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 2006 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Dongzhi 东至 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/11–12, Xizhi 西至 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/15, Zhongcuo 中厝 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/20, Dacuoli 大厝里 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/24, Touqian 头前 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Villagers go on pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong mountain 壶公山 to request the god’s incense. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Wuwei daren 五位大人. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Xu zhongjun 许中军 and Li zhongjun 李中军. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are performed for the hungry ghosts. Marionette plays are performed. 
A033 (
V141 Zhelang sanjia (Zhelang three jia ritual alliance) 遮浪三甲 Zhelang 遮浪) 1. Village settlement Zhelang is located alongside the tidal sea dikes of the Mulan 木兰 river mouth. The area was part of the Dongjiaopu 东角铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. During the early Qing the village was “beyond the borders” 界外, and the village was forcibly evacuated. The village was already settled in the Ming. The village currently has more than 4000 residents, who live in three settlement clusters: Chencuo 陈厝, Chengcuo 程厝, and Huangcuo 黄厝, all of which are managed by the Zhelang Administrative Village 遮浪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into three jia ritual associations on the basis of lineage and settlement. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Cheng 程 and Huang 黄. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 of Chengjiao 城郊, while the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江, and the Cheng came from Chengkou 程口 of Beigao 北高 (of the same ancestry as the Cheng of Donghua 东华程). The Cheng lineage was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming. They produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). Jifumiao 集福庙 of Chencuo 陈厝 is the main temple for the three jia ritual associations. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three jia alliances of Zhelang were all part of the black banner alliance. 3. Village temples 1) Zhujiangjing Jifumiao 珠江境集福庙, Xinanshê 新安社 (also known as the Lüxianyan 吕仙岩) is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Sugong ershi 苏公二使, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Ruizhu shuyuan 蕊珠书院, Xinan shangshê 新安上社 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 3) Tongyingmiao 通应庙 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Li zhangzhe 李长者, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Niushan dawang 牛山大王, Zhu dawang 猪大王. Zhelang three jia ritual alliance 4) Xianyingdian 显应殿 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. Main god: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods: Yide xianfei 懿德仙妃 and Siye 四爷. 5) Mingzhutang 明珠堂 is located in Huangcuo 黄厝. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮 尊天, Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Sanfeng zhenren 三 丰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xingru Lu xiansheng 性如卢先生. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 635 initiates. 6) Xinan xinshê 新安新社 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7) Xian dongshê 新安东社 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Dexinci 德馨祠 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Qingyuantang 清源堂 is located outside the village. There is a Sanguan baodian 三官宝殿 Buddhist Three Treasures Hall inside the temple. This temple originally belonged to the Guanmenjiao 关门教 (closed-door religious movement). Main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 10) Jiqingtang 积庆堂 is located in Chencuo 陈厝 and dedicated to Sixiongdi 四兄弟. 11) Baoyuantang 保元堂 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. The temple was built in 1877. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Luwenhui 卢文辉. 12) Dexinci 德馨祠 is located in Chencuo 陈厝 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhuihuixu 朱慧虚 and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 13) Gongdeci 功德祠: This temple preserves a stele composed by Cheng Gongchen 程拱辰 in Wanli 30 (1602) entitled 修东角遮浪石隄记 (Record of the restoration of the dike from Dongjia to Zhelang). (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:192, No. 168). 14) Mingxintang 明馨堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB: 13 claims that there are about 1170 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Chengcuo 程厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/13–14, Chencuo 陈厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/15–16, Huangcuo 黄厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/17, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the three jia ritual associations. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 are invited to go on procession around the entire territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/18: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 8/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinan shangshê 新安上社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinan dongshê 新安东社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Opera is performed. 11/2: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/3: The Xiayuan Pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are carried out at the Mingzhutang 明珠堂. Marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. 
A034 Donghua sancun (Donghua three village ritual alliance) 东华 三村 The three village alliance of Donghua is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system leading into the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门 前大沟. During the early Qing the village was placed beyond the borders 界外, and the village was evacuated. This area was part of the Donghuapu 东华铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, Donghua village was already settled. In the Qing, Peiwei 沛尾 village separated off. Currently there are over 10, 000 people in the area, which is divided into Huadi 华堤, Huazhong 华中, and Huadong 华东行政村 Administrative Villages. Apart from this, Donghu 东湖, a natural village subsidiary to Huazhong 华中, alsoDonghua three village ritual alliance participates in the ritual activities of the three village ritual alliance of Donghua. Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 temple, located in Huazhong village, is the main temple for the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Each year on lunar 2/3 the Toufu rites are celebrated, and the god is taken on a procession to all three villages of the alliance. This area was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming, and the seven lineages of the region, the Yu 余, Guo 郭, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Wu 吴, Chen 陈 and You 游 together produced six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twenty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway for Yu Kang 余康. In the Ming Chenghua period (1465–1487) the Supervisory Education-intendant Censor 提学佥事 set up a Di’e lianhui 棣 萼联辉牌坊 memorial archway in honor of two brothers of the Lin lineage 林氏兄弟. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three villages of the Donghua alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V142 Huadi 华堤 1. Village settlement Huadi village is managed by the Huadi Administrative Village 华堤行政村. Huadi village was originally divided into Huadi 华堤 and Weicuo 尾厝, but now the two have combined, becoming a natural village under the name of Huadi. The entire village has approximately 2700 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Xie 谢, Zheng 郑 and Lin 林. The Wu make up approximately 50% of the population while the Chen make up approximately 30%. The Wu first emigrated from Daomei 道美 of Huangshi 黄石 to Jiangdong 江东, then one of the households moved to Huadi and gradually developed the region. The Wu are divided into the Tianwei 田尾 branch and the Weicuo 尾厝 branch. There is a common ancestral hall called Guangyuci 光裕祠, and it is used during the Yuanxiao festivals. Their genealogy is in Huangshi while their ancestral tombs are near the Huangshi Number 1 high school 黄石一中. The Chen emigrated from Beigao 北高, and divided into two branches, the Yigu 一谷 and Ergu 二谷. The Zheng have just over 100 people, and they emigrated from the area near Guanghuasi 广化寺 during the Ming Tianqi period (1621–1627). 3. Village temples 1) Huajiangjing Xingtaiyan 华江境兴泰岩 is the main temple for Huadi. Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, it was rebuilt both during the Qing Guangxu period (1875–1908) and in 1984. Middle: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left: Bajiang 八将, Zaobo 皂伯, Dongdaye 东大爷. Right: Bajiang 八将, Zaobo 皂伯, Xidaye 西大爷. Left side hall: Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Zhenwudian 真武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Side altars: Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Denglong shushê 登龙书社 belongs to the Wu 吴. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Fuyoushê 福佑社 belongs to the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wudiye 五帝爷, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5) Yingyoushê 英佑社 belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Zheng 郑. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. 6) Dengmingshê 灯明社 belongs to the Xie 谢. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7) Dechengfu 德成府 belongs to the Wu of Tianwei 田尾. Middle: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Daye 大爷. 8) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built in 2002, and belongs to Zhoushejia 周社甲. Middle: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Mingxintang 明心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 11) Sanshengci 三圣祠 was first built during the Ming Tianqi period (1621– 27), and was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (The Huang of Huazhong 华中, the Zheng of Huadi 华堤, and the Lin 林 and the Zhang 张 of Huadi 华堤 each sculpted their own set of statues of these gods). Left: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Right: Huilie shenghou 慧烈圣侯 (supported by the Huang of Huazhong 华中). Front: Guangfu furen 广福夫人, Erwei jinren 二位金人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Nezha taizi 哪吒太子, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 12) Fuxitang 浮溪堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. Right: Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. 13) Yuhuaci 玉华祠 belongs to the Wu 吴 of Tianwei 田尾. Middle: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. 14) Tianhua chansi 天华禅寺 was rebuilt in 1991. Middle: Sanzhenfo 三真佛. Side altars: Milefo 弥勒佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝, 18 Luohan 十八罗汉. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the Wu 吴 take Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 on a procession within their territory. On 1/15, the Xie 谢 of Dengmingshê, the Chen 陈 of Xinanshê 新安社 and the Chen, Lin, Li, and Zheng of Fuxingshê all go on a procession within their territory. On 1/16, the Chen take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 on a procession within their territory. On 1/21, on the final evening of the Yuanxiao ritual (weiwan Yuanxiao 尾晚元宵), Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 are taken on a procession around the village. Three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, as well as the Wuhuang dadi 五皇 大帝 of the Chongshengci 崇圣祠 of Huazhong 华中 village are all taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 4/28: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuyoushê. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Huilie shenghou 慧烈圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dengmingshê. Marionette plays are performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Denglong fenshê 登龙分社. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingyoushê 英佑社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 10/29: Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度. Sanyijiao 三一教 Scripture masters are invited to perform rites. Huazhong 华中 1. Village settlement Huazhong is managed by the Huazhong Administrative village 华中行政村. Huazhong was originally divided into Zhongjing 中境, Zhongle 中乐, Donghu 东湖, Baishiyang 白石洋, Jingputou 井埔头 and Wangfang 汪方. All six settlements have merged together over time, creating one continuous natural village. The entire village currently has more than 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The Yu 余 make up 50%, while the Huang 黄 make up approximately 15% of the entire village population. Other surnames include the Guo 郭, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Ou 欧, Xu 许, Li 李, and the Cheng 程. The Yu are divided into the east Yu and the west Yu. The east Yu emigrated from Duwei 度尾 of Xianyou 仙游, and are now divided into two branches. They have a Yu ancestral hall 余氏祠堂, where they worship their ancestors. Opera is performed for two days. The west Yu came from Chengkou 程口 of Beigao 北高, and are divided into three branches. They have a Qianxianci 佥宪祠 and a Shiqing jiamiao 世卿家庙. They also worship their ancestors in their ancestral hall during Yuanxiao. Opera is performed for two days. Their ancestral tombs are currently in Chengkou 呈口. Each year, each branch sends representatives to Chengkou to worship their ancestors. The Huang have approximately 700 people. They emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞, and are mainly distributed in Zhongjing 中境. The Huang are divided into five branches. The Yudeci Huang lineage ancestal hall 黄氏裕德祠, which was originally built in Qing Jiaqing 4 (1799), is still used for ancestal worship. The lineage genealogy is kept in Huangxia. 3. Village temples 1) Huajiangjing Xigui zushê 华江境袭桂祖社 was originally the ancestral shê (zushe) 祖社 of Haibin 海滨, Zhelang 遮浪, Dongjia 东甲 and Sanhua 三华. Now it is co-owned by the east Yu 东余, west Yu 西余, the Wu 吴, Guo 郭, Ou 欧 and the Wang 王 of the village. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beima shenghou 白马圣侯. Right altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Guangfu furen 广福夫人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 is the main temple for the three village alliance of Donghua 东华. The temple was rebuilt in 1988. Middle: Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Left: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dongfu xiansheng 东阜 先生. Right: Wanggong daren 王公大人. Front left: Dong bajiang 东八将, Daye 大爷. Front right: Xi bajiang 西八将, Daye 大爷. Left side lower hall: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Qingyundong 清云洞: Middle altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Liu daye 柳大爷, Zhong junfu 中军府, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuotong 风火童. 4) Tianhougong 天后宫 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳. 5) Sanshengci 三圣祠: Built in Ming Tianqi 2 (1458), this temple belongs to the Huang 黄, the Zheng 郑, and the Lin 林. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Hui lieshenghou 惠烈 圣侯, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huang sheren 黄舍人, Bai sheren 白舍人, Lufu youer 鲁府幼儿. 6) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Xinanshê 新安社: This temple was originally built during the late Ming Dynasty, and was rebuilt both in 1947 and in 2001. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Right altar: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Front altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, Zhengyi tianshi 正一天师, Sanwei zhenren 三位真人, Sanwei xingjun 三位星君, Sanwei jiangjun 三位将军, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎 将军. 7) Dazuntang 达尊堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Canxingting 参性亭 was rebuilt in 1989. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Secondary gods: (left) Xietian dadi 协天大帝. (right ) Jialan pusa 伽蓝 菩萨. 9) Dongshengci 东升祠 was built in 1989. Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. Secondary gods: Left altar: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Right altar: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. Right hall dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 10) Minglintang 明林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Guo 郭 take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. On 1/9, the west Yu 余 take Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/10, the Ou and the Xu take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. On 1/11, the Cheng take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/12, the Huang take Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯 and Shuntian shengmu to go on procession within the territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/14, the east Yu 东余 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 and the Lin 林 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, as well as the Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 of the Chongshengci 崇圣祠 temple of Huazhong 华中 are taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days by the three village alliance of Donghua. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for almost a month, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shuangshengci 双圣祠. Opera is performed for two days. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Wanggong daren 王公大人. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by one to three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师. Marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V144 Huadong 华东 1. Village settlement Huadong is managed by the Huadong Administrative Village 华东行政村. Huadong was originally divided into villages such as Huadong 华东, Yangqiaotou 杨桥头, and Hengtouqiu 横头丘, but now they are all linked together into a single natural village. The entire village currently has more than 4000 people, 2. Surname groups The Chen make up 90% of the village population. Other surname groups include the Huang 黄 and the Wu 吴. The Chen came from Shanqian 山前 of Beigao 北高, and are divided into three branches: Touqian 头前, Shuxia 树下, and Houcuo 后厝. They also have a lineage genealogy 族谱. The Huang currently have an ancestral hall, but the most of the people of the surname group have migrated to Huangshi 黄石. Six people are selected to be Fushou 福首 each year by divination. 3. Village temples 1) Panshigong 磐石宫, Panshuishê 泮水社 is the main temple for the village. The temple was rebuilt in 1982. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Right altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chengong taishi 陈公太师. 2) Hongjingmiao 弘靖庙: Originally built right after the founding of the PRC, this temple was renovated in 1985. Middle: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Left altar: Liu daye 柳大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, Chen daye 陈大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄二爷. Right altar: Xu daye 徐大爷, Zhu daye 朱大爷, Li daye 李大爷, Wu daye 吴大爷, Xu guniang 徐姑娘, Siye 四爷. 3) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Huajiang shuyuan 华江书院 was originally co-owned by Donghua 东华, Zhelang 遮浪, and Haibin 海滨 villages. Middle: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Side altars: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer mamu 鹿儿马母. 5) Yuhuangdian 玉皇殿 was rebuilt in 1990. Middle: Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊. Left: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. Right: Dafa tianshi 大法天师, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Wu yuanshuai 吴元帅, Xin yuanshuai 辛元帅, Dianmu 电母. East side: Daye 大爷. West side: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 6) Tongmingdian 通明殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Niushan dawang 牛山 大王, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. 8) Deyuanmiao 德源庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Dongzhenci 东镇祠 was built in Ming Jiajing 21 (1542). The back hall is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝. Right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. Left side: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Right side: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 10) Mingyangtang 明扬堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is the secondary god. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Chengong taishi 陈公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 descends to possess Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums). Three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited to conduct rites. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and the Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 of Chongshenci 崇圣祠 of Huazhong village are invited to go on procession within the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. One ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 5/6: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 6/17: 7/7: 7/16: 7/17: 7/23: 8/6: 8/21: 8/23: 8/8: 9/19: 10/15: 10/23: 10/29: 12/24: The birthday celebration of Niushan dawang 牛山大王. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. One ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Dafa tianshi 大法天师. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Between one to three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王. Opera is performed for two days. The birthday celebration of Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The birthday celebration of Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. Universal Deliverance rites of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are performed at the Dongzhenci东镇祠. Mulian opera (with marionettes) 目莲戏 is performed for one day. Three to seven Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime rites 下元普度 are performed at the Panshigong磐石宫. Mulian opera (with marionettes) 目莲戏 is performed for one day. Three to seven Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Chengong taishi 陈公太师. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 
A035 Jingpu wushê (Jingpu five shê ritual alliance) 井埔五社 The five shê alliance of Jingpu is located in between the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前 大沟 and the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟. These villages were part of the Zhupu Tashanpu 珠埔塔山铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, this area already had the four villages of Jingpu 井埔, Houzhu 后洙, Tashan 塔山 and Longxiang 龙巷. In the Qing, the villages of Taihu 太湖 and Puding 铺顶 separated off. Currently the area has over 3000 people, all of whom are under the administration of the Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to lineage and settlements into five shê ritual associations. The Xianjimiao 显济庙 temple, located in Jingpu 井埔村 village, is the main temple for the five shê ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Weiling Jiayouhou 威灵嘉佑侯. Every twelve years, the god is taken on a procession to the five shê of the alliance, and on to the streets and temples of Huangshi 黄石 town. These events are organized by a temple management committee made up of representatives from each of the five shê ritual associations. In this area, the Zhu 朱, Wu 吴, Huang 黄, and Zhuo 卓 lineages were prominent lineages known for their examination graduates. In the Ming, the Zhu lineage 朱 produced six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan graduates) and twenty-four Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Wu lineage was a close second, with six Jinshi and twenty-three Juren. The Huang lineage produced five Jinshi and fifteen Juren, and the Zhuo lineage produced one Jinshi and four Juren. In Ming Tianshun 1 (1457) a Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Liwei jingkui 礼闱经魁牌坊 memorial archway for the Zhuo lineage 卓. In Ming Hongzhi 14 (1501) the Assistant Surveillance Commissioner 按察司佥事 set up a Jinbang lianfang 金榜联芳牌坊 memorial archway for the Wu lineage 吴. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499) the Surveillance Vice Commissioner 按察司副 set up a Shaoqing 少卿牌坊 memorial archway for the Wu lineage 吴. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five shê alliance of Jinpu all were part of the red banner alliance. 
V145 Jingpu 井埔 1. Village settlement Jingpu is part of the Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. Jinghou village currently has more than 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱, Cheng 程 and Li 李. According to the survey data from 1993, the Zhu surname group makes up two thirds of the population of the entire village. Apart from this, Jingpu five shê ritual alliance there are some forty Cheng households, over thirty Li households, more than ten Lin 林 household, six Jin 靳 households, four Wu 吴 households, and four Chen 陈 households. The Zhu claim to have fled from Gushi 固始 county in Guangzhou 光州 prefecture of Henan province 河南 to Gutian county 古田县 of Fujian province during the Huangchao 黄巢 rebellion in the late Tang dynasty. The Zhu claim that their ancestor was appointed District Magistrate 县令 of Gutian, and later his descendants migrated and settled in the Shuinan ritual territory 水南境 of Putian 莆田. Currently, the Zhu preserve a lineage genealogy 族谱, a lineage ancestral hall 祠堂 and a tombstone of the deceased mother of the county magistrate of Gutian (née Xiao) 唐古田令朱公妣敕封恭人萧氏墓. 3. Village temples 1) Yujingjing Antai xingshê 玉井境安泰兴社 was rebuilt in 1985. Zhongzuo shenzhang 中座神帐: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Left: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Xianji shushê 显济书社 was rebuilt in 1993. Central altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar: Jiayou shenghou 嘉祐圣侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人 (commonly call Furenma 夫人妈). 3) Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xianjimiao 显济庙 is dedicated to Song imperially enfeoffed Weiling jiayouhou Zhugong 宋敕封威灵嘉祐侯朱公 and to Ziyang zhuwengong 紫阳 朱文公 (Zhu Xi 朱熹). 5) Fengluangong 凤峦宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Xinqionglou 新瓊楼 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Xingshengci 兴圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 8) Taihuci 太湖祠 was built in Ming Wanli 20 (1592), at the urging of Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, a close disciple of Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩, founder of the Three in One religious movement. The temple was listed as one of the major cultural preservation sites of Putian county in 1986, and was renovated in 1992. Front hall, central altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. Right altar: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Back altar: Milefo 弥勒佛. Back hall, central altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Shuiguan dadi 水官大帝. East corridor: Huoguan dadi 火官大帝. West corridor: Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 of Taihuci 太湖祠. Eastern side hall: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Sida jiangjun 四大 将军. Western side hall: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Zhongjun 中军. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 770 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11, the Zhu 朱 take the incense burners of the gods of Xianji shushê 显济书社 to each household to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). Four Fushou 福首 are selected to carry the incense burners. On 1/12–13, the miscellaneous surname group 杂姓 take the incense burners of the gods of Antai xingshê 安泰兴社 to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). Two Fushou 福首 are selected. On 1/14–15, the Zhu 朱 of Puding 舖顶 and the Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 of Houzhu 后珠 take the incense burners of the gods of Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated by the entire village. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Fengluangong 凤峦宫 is invited to go on procession around the five shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Antai xingshê 安泰兴社. 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Jiayou shenghou 嘉佑圣侯. Every twelve years, a procession first takes place through the five shê and then goes all around the streets and lanes of Huangshi 黄石 town. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xianji shushê 显济书社. 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 is held. 11/11: Rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are held at Taihuci. Three in One scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited to conduct the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts. Marionette opera is performed. 
V146 Houzhu 后洙 1. Village settlement Originally written Houzhu 后珠 or 后洙. Houzhu is part of Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. Houzhu currently has 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑, Lin 林 and Huang 黄. According to the survey data from 1993, the village has seventy-seven Zheng households, sixty-five Lin households, thirty-five Huang households, seven Chen 陈 households, three Liao 廖 households, seven Wu 吴 households, and one Wang 王 household. The Zheng 郑 came from Longboshê 龙波社 of Dongmen 东门 of Putian city. Divided into four branches, the Zheng have been here for seven generations. Their ancestral tombs are in Shanpai 山牌 of Laixi 濑溪. 3. Village temples 1) Houzhujing Fengshangong 后洙境凤山宫 was rebuilt in 1988. Middle: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Sima shenghou 司马 圣侯. 2) Wenfeng shushê 文峰书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Zhuangliemiao 壮烈庙 was rebuilt in 1932. Middle altar: Weigong shenghou 魏公圣侯. Left altar: Wei jiangjun 魏将军. Right altar: Provincial Governor (Dudu) Qi Jiguang 戚继光都督. Side altars: Huye 虎爷, Gouye 狗爷. 4) Gushansi 古山寺: Built during the Song Dynasty, it was a branch of the Chongxingsi 重兴寺 which (it was claimed) was under the direct administration of Beichengong 北辰宫 (note however that the Beichengong was not built until the late Ming). The temple was led by a Chan master (Chanshi) 禅师 called Seng Rusheng 僧如升. Middle altar: Shijia rulai 释迦如来. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5) Wenfutan 文福坛 is dedicated to Haigu daye 骸骨大爷, Erye二爷, Guitougong 鬼头公. 6) Fengshanting 凤山亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Fengyingtang 凤应堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, each household is visited by a procession to xingdao (practice the Dao). Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 is taken on this procession, carried by recently married young men, and is returned to the temple on the 9th. Opera is performed for one day. On 1/22, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. Lanterns and candles 喜蜡 are lit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shenghou 司马圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/2: The birthday celebration of Weigong shenghou 魏公圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 rites are carried out at the Wenfutan 文福坛. Marionette plays are performed. 9/5:Tadou 塔兜 1. Village settlement Tadou is also called Tashan 塔山 and Sanmenjing 三门井. Tadou is part of Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. The population of Tadou is over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Timing shê 题名社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, Furenma 夫人妈. 2) Ziyangci 紫阳祠: Zhuzi xiansheng 朱子先生 (Zhu Xi 朱熹). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/20 the villagers of Tadou participate in the general overall Yuanxiao rituals of Jingpu 井埔.. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10th month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
A036 Yuanyong wucun (Yuanyong five village ritual alliance) 员永五村 The five-fold village of Yuanyong is located alongside the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. The area was part of the Fuqiang Yuanyongpu 阜墙员永铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli subcanton 连江里. In the Ming, there were four villages here: Shangyu 上余, Xiayu 下余, Shifu 石阜 and Xiangfeng 象峰. In the early Qing, the following villages separated off: Wulong 五龙, Xinan 新安, Duwei 度尾, Goubian 沟边, Changkeng 长坑 and Xiayu 下余. Currently there are over 4000 people in the five village alliance, and they are managed by the three Administrative Villages of Shuinan 水南, Heping 和平 and Fengshan 凤山行政村. Tianxintai 天心台 temple, located in Changkeng 长坑 village, is the main temple for the five village ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each ding year (once every ten years), on a day determined by divination, the god is carried in a procession to the five villages. This is organized by the temple management committee, made up of representatives of the five villages. Expenses are collected on a proportional basis as follow: Goubian 沟边 40%, Wulong 五龙 30%, Daomei 道美 19%, Changkeng 长 坑 8% and Xiayu 下余 3%.Yuanyong five village ritual alliance In this area, historically, the following prominent lineages were renowned for their large numbers of examination graduates: the Yu 余, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Huang 黄, Xu 徐, Wang 王 and the Qiu 邱. In the Song Shaoxi period (1190–1194), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知军 set up a Jinzi 金紫牌坊 memorial arch in honor of Yu Zhen 余振. In Ming Xuande 5 (1430), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Huiyuan 会元牌坊 memorial archway for Chen Zhong 陈中. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Meilong shike 梅陇世科牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Xu lineage 徐. In Ming Chenghua 18 (1482), the Putian District Magistrate 莆田 县丞 set up a Jingbiao zhenjie 旌表贞节牌坊 memorial archway for the Huang lineage 黄. In Ming Chengua 11 (1475), the Fujian Provinical Administration Commissioner 福建布政司 set up a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage 吴. In Ming Chenghua 22 (1486), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up Buchan 步蟾牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wang lineage 王. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Qiu lineage 邱. Finally, in Ming Hongzhi 13 (1500), the Putian District Magistrate 莆田知县 set up a Dengke 登科牌坊 archway in honor of Chen Yuan 陈元. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five villages of the Yuanyong ritual alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V148 Changkeng 长坑 1. Village settlement Changkeng is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Changkeng village currently has more than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the He 何 and the Huang 黄. Other surnames include seven households of the Song 宋 and four households of the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Tianxintai 天心台 is the main temple for the five village ritual alliance. Middle altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Left altar: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Left altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Denglongshê 登龙社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Denglongmiao 登龙庙: Middle altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Denglongshê 登龙社 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every Ding year 丁年, on a day determined by divination, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to go on a procession around the five village alliance. These events are organized by the five village alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V149 Wulong 五龙 1. Village settlement Wulong is part of the Heping Administrative Village 和平行政村. Wulong village currently has more than 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方 and the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Wu 吴, Zhou 周, Li 李 and Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Tongtiansi 通天寺: Originally built during the Song Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt in Ming Chongzhen 13 (1640), by the Jinshi 进士 Yu Wanxing 余万兴 and another Patron 檀越 named Yu Peng 余鹏. The temple was rebuilt again in Qing Guangxu 33 (1907). Middle altar: Shijia wenfo 释迦 文佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Side altars: the Eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉. 3) Tongtiantang 通天堂, Lingcongshê 灵聪社: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 4) Tongmingci 通明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Fang 方 invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of the Lingcongshê 灵聪社 to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/15, the miscellaneous surnames group invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on a procession within their own territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Lingcongshê 灵聪社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/17:Goubian 沟边 1. Village settlement Goubian was originally called Shifu 石阜. Goubian is part of the Heping Administrative Village 和平行政村. Goubian currently has 1800 people, and is divided into four shê ritual associations: the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈 and the Lu 卢. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Chen 陈 and Lu 卢. Currently, there exists a Huang and a Chen ancestral hall 宗祠. The Huang have 400 people. They emigrated from Shifu village 石阜村 near the Sijiaoting 四脚亭 of Huangshi, and divided themselves into three branches: Weiguan 为官, Weiqian 为前, and Weimin 为敏. Currently, they are in their 8th and 9th generation. 3. Village temples 1) Shifujing Longdonggong 石阜境龙洞宫 was built in Ming Wanli 12 (1584) and renovated in 1920. The rear hall was rebuilt in 1986 while the front hall was rebuilt in 1990, and finished in 1991. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Right altar: Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. Left side: Huang daren 黄大人. Right side: Xu jiangjun 徐将军. 2) Yi’anshê 义安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 3) Xingyuan ting 兴元亭, Liantangshê 莲塘社 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯. Front: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 4) Longtougong 龙头宫: Middle altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Fulushê 福禄社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Shuibu shangshu 水部尚书. Right: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The right hall is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The left hall is dedicated to Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Huiyuan shuyuan 会源书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 7) Julanting 聚兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Right: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. 8) Xingyuanmiao 兴元庙 is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 9) Cishantang 慈善堂 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10) Hanantang 涵安堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5–6, the Lin 林 carry the gods of the Yianshê 义安社 in a procession to each household in their territory to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). On 1/7–8, the Huang 黄 do the same. On 1/9–10, the Lu 卢 carry the gods of the Liantangshê 莲塘社 in a procession to each household in their territory to practice the Dao. On 1/11–12, the Chen 陈 carry the gods of the Fulushê 福禄社 in a procession to each household in their territory to practice the Dao. On 1/14, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. On this day, Wenwu zhanggong 文武 张公, Wuwu sima shenghou 文武司马圣侯, Huishi shenghou 惠世圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession around the entire territory. Bonfires are run across 踏火, opera is performed 演戏, and fireworks are set off 放花. During Yuanxiao 元宵, the gods visit each home to xingdao 行道. This is done in the following way: first, the Fushou 福首 pick up the incense burners from the altar of the Yianshê 义安社 to start the procession (起马). Then prayers are made in the hall of each household. After the procession has circled the mountain (Quanshan 圈山) the incense burners are carried to the Longdonggong 龙洞宫. There, Daoist ritual masters 法师 chant the scriptures. Next, the gods and the incense burners are carried to the Julanting 聚兰亭 and then back to the shê. Finally, at the home of the Fushou who is holding the last incense burner of the previous year, three Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual. There were originally only three Fushou but now there are seven. There are three basic requirements for becoming a Fushou. The person has to: 1) take part in the Chunzhai 春斋 Spring Fast (purification) in the first year, and 2) agree to host the Chujiuzao 初九早 (a kind of banquet held on the ninth day of the New Year); and to 3) invite the xianglao 乡老 Village Elders to the feast. Only then can the person become a Fushou in the third year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Chen 陈, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong daren 黄公大人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fulushê 福禄社. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Chen 陈, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yianshê 义安社. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Huang 黄 and the Lin 林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Liantangshê 莲塘社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lu 卢, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/6:Daomei 道美 1. Village settlement Daomei is also called Duwei 度尾. Daomei village is managed by the Shuinan Administrative Village 水南行政村. Daomei village currently has 1100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yu 余 and the Song 宋. The Yu have 400 people while the Song have 500 people. Other surnames include the Zeng 曾, Hu 胡, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Chen 陈 and Lu 卢. The ancestor of the Yu, Yu Gaogong 余镐公, is said to have fled to Fujian during the Huang Chao revolt 黄巢起义 of the late Tang Dynasty. The descendants of Yu Yigong 余毅公, an ancestor of the fourth generation, are divided into three branches, of which the Ji branch 季房 has now reached the 33rd generation. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxingshê 永兴社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wulu jiangjun 五路 将军. Right altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Yunshuidong 云水洞: Upper hall: Li zhenren 李真人. Lower hall: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, the Song 宋 take all the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 on a procession within their territory. On 1/8, the Yu 余 take all the gods of Yongxingshê to go on procession within their own territory. On 1/15, the entire village goes on processsion around its entire ritual territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Li zhenren 李真人. Marionette opera is performed. 6/12: 9/12: 7/11: 8/15: 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 (Univeral Salvation of the Middle Prime) rites are carried out at Yunshuidong 云水洞. Marionette opera is performed. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime) rites are carried out at the Yongxingshê 永兴社 and the Yunshuidong 云水洞. Marionette opera is performed. 
A037 Tangxia shisanxiang (Tangxia Thirteen village ritual alliance) 塘下 十三乡 The thirteen village alliance of Tangxia is located along the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system, and it also borders on the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This area was originally part of the Putianli subcanton 莆田里. Later the area was reassigned to the Shadipu 沙堤铺 (police/ self defense unit) and Kangcuopu 康厝铺 of Liangjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, village of Tangxia 塘下 was already settled, and in the Qing several villages separated off, including Goujiao 沟角, Qiangou 前沟, Dongqiaotou 东桥头, Xiqiao 西桥, Qianyuan 前园, Kangcuo 康厝 and Datie 打铁. Currently there are over 8000 people in the thirteen village ritual alliance. The villages of the alliance which are managed by the two Administrative Villages of Shadi 沙堤 and Tianma 天马. The temple ritual system is divided into thirteen villages: Wuxiang 梧巷, Xiangkou 巷口, Gouding 沟顶, Xiaxincuo 下新厝, Dongzhang 东张, Xizhang 西张, Xigou 西沟, Xiyuan 西园, Zhucuo 朱厝, Kangcuo 康厝, Huangcuo 黄厝, Wucuo 吴厝, and Shanqianzi 山前仔. These are known as the Tangxia thirteen village ritual alliance. The Houguomiao 后果庙 and the Qilongtan 起龙潭 temples, located in Zhucuo 朱厝 village, and the Xianzhougong 仙洲宫 temple located in Dongzhang 东张 village, are the main temples of the Tangxia thirteen village alliance 总宫. The main god of Houguomiao 后果庙 is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and every year with an intercalary lunar fourth month the god goes on a procession through the thirteen villages of the alliance. The main gods of Qilongtan 起龙潭 are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Every twelve years these gods go on a procession around the thirteen villages of the alliance. Finally, the main god of the Tangxia thirteen village ritual alliance Xianzhougong 仙洲宫 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and every year with an intercalary luanr third month, there is a procession around the thirteen villages of the alliance. The main surname groups of this area are the Zhu 朱, Zhang 张 and Huang 黄. There are also the minor surname groups of the Chen 陈, Kang 康, Wu 吴, Xu 许 and Wang 王. The Zhu came from Dongjing 东井 of Huangshi 黄石. There currently exists a Zhu lineage ancestral hall 朱氏宗 祠 and a Zhu lineage genealogy 朱氏族谱. The Zhang came from Hengtang 横塘 of Huangshi, while the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江. In the Ming, Shadi 沙堤 was famous for its examination graduates, and the five lineages of the Zhang 张, Huang 黄, Zhu 朱, Chen 陈 and Wang 王 produced altogether fourteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and forty-two Juren 举人 (Provinical Graduates). In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan 解元牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Xu lineage 许. In Ming Tianshun 1 (1457), the Xinghua Assistant Prefect 兴化府通判 set up a Jingkui 经魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In Ming Chenghua 1 (1465), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In Ming Chenghua 8 (1472), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化 知府 set up a Minkui 闽魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Qiaozi lianfang 桥梓联芳牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In the Ming Chenghua and Hongzhi periods (1465–1505), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Shuangfeng 双凤牌坊 and a Lianxian 联宪牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, the thirteen villages of the Tangxia ritual alliance all belonged to the black banner alliance. 
V152 Wuxiang 梧巷 1. Village settlement Wuxiang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Wuxiang village has approximately 1200 people. The village is subdivided into three neighborhoods: Xiangkou 巷口, Xiaxincuo 下新厝 and Wuxiang 梧巷. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhang 张 and the Zhu 朱. Other surnames include the Zhou 周, Liu 刘 and Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxing lishê 仲兴里社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingyandong 兴岩洞: Main god: Xun’an Wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Secondary gods: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Zhenjieting 祯节亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Sancheng chansi 三乘禅寺 is located in Xiangkou 巷口, and was rebuilt in 1990. Main hall (Daxiong baodian 大雄宝殿 is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. Side altars: Eighteen Luohans 十八罗汉. Rear hall (Qingliange 青莲阁) is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Wuxiangwei 梧巷尾 take the gods of Zhongxing lishê 仲兴里社 on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, Xiangkou 巷口 and Xiaxincuo 下新厝 take the gods of Yiqi xishê 义齐西社 on a procession within their own territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xunan wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/29: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/27: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held. Marionette opera is performed. 
V153 Dongzhang 东张 1. Village settlement Dongzhang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Dongzhang village currently has 728 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi dongshê 义齐东社 is co-owned with Zhucuo 朱厝 and Huangcuo 黄厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 2) Xianzhougong 仙洲宫: Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 3) Dongshengtang 东升堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Weituo zunzhe 韦陀尊者. 4) Qingyitang 清一堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, Huangcuo 黄厝 takes the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐东社 on a procession around their territory. On 1/12, Dongzhang 东张 takes the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐东社 on procession around their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar month, a procession of the god is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia 塘下. 4/15–16: Dongzhang 东张 invites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 to watch opera. 4/17–18: Huangcuo 黄厝 invites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 to watch opera. 11/1: Dongzhang 东张 celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/3: (Huangcuo 黄厝) celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V154 Xizhang 西张 1. Village settlement Xizhang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Xizhang village currently has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Zhu 朱 and the Wu 吴. Apart from this, the 400 people of Huangcuo village 黄厝村 also participate in the ritual ceremonies of Xizhang. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi xishê 义齐西社, Weilinggong 威灵宫 is coowned with Xiangkou 巷口, Xiaxincuo 下新厝 and Gouding 沟顶. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 2) Lingxiaodian 凌宵殿: Main god: Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. Secondary gods: Shugong 叔公, Huye 虎爷. 3) Xilaiting 西来亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, the gods of Yiqi xishê 义齐 西社 and Ganglinggong 威灵宫 are carried in a procession around the entire village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/20: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 of Dingzhuang 定庄 is invited to watch opera. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/11–14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Gouding 沟顶 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Zhucuo 朱厝 1. Village settlement Zhucuo is part of Tianma Administrative Village 天 马行政村. Zhucuo village currently has 834 people. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Houguomiao 沙堤境后果庙 (Taiyue xinggong 台岳行宫) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Bajiang 八将. 2) Qilongtan 起龙潭 was originally built during the Southern Song Qiandao period (1165–1173). The temple was rebuilt in 2002. Main gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods: Wangmu daxian 王母大仙, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. There is a board of directors for the temple committee of Shadipu 沙堤铺. 3) Houguo chansi 后果禅寺 was built in 1944. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦 牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Buyun shuyuan 步云书院 was built in the 1929. Main god: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐 东社 are carried on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xunan wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar month, a procession of the god is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia 塘下. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every twelve years a procession of these gods is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia. 11/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V156 Xigou 西沟 1. Village settlement Xigou is also called Qiangou 前沟. Xigou is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Xigou village has approximately 900 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods: Goutou 沟头 and Qiangouwei 前沟尾. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cheng 程 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi shangshê 义齐上社, Qingling gong 清灵 宫: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. This temple is owned by the Cheng 程. 2) Wufu zushê 五福祖社, Lufu 鲁府: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人. Secondary gods: Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏 圣妃. This temple is owned by the Wu 吴. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the Wu 吴 of Qiangouwei 前沟尾 invite the gods of Wufu zushê 五福祖社 to go on procession within their territory. On 1/14, the Cheng 程 of Qiangoutou 前沟头 invite the gods of Yiqi shangshê 义齐上社 to go on procession within their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xun’an wutaishan 巡按吴泰山 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/19–21: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 of Qiangouwei 前沟尾 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Qiangoutou 前沟头 is held. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Wufu zushê 五福祖社 is held. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yiqi shangshê 义齐上社 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V157 Xiyuan 西园 1. Village settlement Xiyuan is also called Qianyuan 前园. Xiyuan is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. The entire village currently has 380 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi zhongshê 义齐中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Zongjutang 宗聚堂 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3) Jubaoting 聚宝亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Yiqi zhongshê 义齐 中社 and Zongjutang 宗聚堂 are taken on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V158 Kangcuo 康厝 1. Village settlement Kangcuo is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Kangcuo village currently has 560 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Kang 康. 3. Village temples 1) Yixing shushê 义兴书社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yanxiatang 衍夏堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Yixing shushê 义兴书社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/1: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V159 Wucuo 吴厝 1. Village settlement Wucuo is is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Wucuo village currently has 678 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Yiqi xingshê 义齐兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the gods of Yiqi xingshê 义齐 兴社 are invited to go on procession within its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/6: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/6–7: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshan gong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites.Shanqianzi 山前仔 1. Village settlement Shanqianzi is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Shanqianzi village currently has 167 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups: the Zhuang 庄 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Longxingshê 隆兴社, Chaoyanggong 朝阳宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the incense burners of the shê temple are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). At night a lantern procession traces the village boundaries, while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A038 (
V161 Huiyang bashê (Huiyang eight shê ritual alliance) 惠洋八社 Huiyang 惠洋) 1. Village settlement Huiyang is also called Houyang 后洋, and is located along the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan irrigation system. In the early Qing, this area was declared off limits (beyond the borders 界外) and was evacuated. Huiyang village was originally part of the Huiyangpu 惠洋铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming the village of Huiyang was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Dongmian 东面, Fangcuoding 方厝顶 and Duwei 度尾 separated off from Huiyang village. Nowadays all these villages have joined back together into one continuous “natural village”, but with a overall population of over 11,000 people. Huiyang is managed by two Administrative Village Committees: namely Huishang 惠上 and Huixia 惠下. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of surname groups into eight shê ritual associations. The Fengxunshê 凤浔社 temple of Huishang 惠上 is the founding shê altar of the eight shê of Huiyang (see below), and the Zhenwudian 震武殿 temple Huiyang eight shê ritual alliance of Huixia 惠下 is the main temple of Huiyang (see below). These temples are managed by a temple committee made up of representatives of the eight shê ritual associations. Each year with a intercalary third lunar month, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fengxunshê 凤浔社 are taken on a procession to the eight shê altars of the alliance. In the Ming, Houyang was famous as a region that produced examination graduates. The five main lineages of the area, the Fang 方, Zhou 周, Wu 吴, Yu 俞 and Liu 刘 together had six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and fourteen Juren 举人 (Prefectural Graduates). In Ming Hongzhi 4 (1491), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Fang lineage 方. In Ming Hongzhi 10 (1497), the Xinghua Prefect set up another Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway, this time to honor the Wu lineage 吴. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, the eight shê of Huiyang were part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups Currently, the main surname groups are the Fang 方, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Liu 刘 and Zhou 周. The Fang came from Youtang 游塘 of Chengxiang 城厢, and there exists a Fang ancestral hall 方氏宗祠. The origin of the Chen is unclear. There exists a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏宗祠. The Wu came from Longdu 龙渡 of Huangshi, and are divided into three branches. There exists a Wu ancestral hall 吴氏宗祠. They are of the same ancestry as the Wu of Xibei 西陂吴. 3. Village temples 1) Fangxunshê 方寻社 is subdivided into eight shê ritual associations: Yongtai zhongshê 永泰中社, Yongtai dongshê 永泰东社, Yongtai xishê 永泰西社, Yongtai heshê 永泰合社, Yongan shushê 永安 书社, Yongning xishê 永宁西社, Yongheshê 永和社 and Xinxunshê 新寻社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Zhenwudian 震武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Huiyangjing Qiongshangong 惠洋境琼山宫: Located in Huishang 惠上, this temple was originally built in the Qing Yongzheng 13 (1735), and was renovated in both Qianlong 48 (1783) and in Jiaqing 23 (1818). The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘, Tiegong yuanshuai 铁公元帅, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Chima jiangjun 赤马 将军, Baima jiangjun 白马将军. 4) Huiyangjing Yonglongmiao 惠洋境永龙庙 is located in Huishang. The main god is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Wubu yuanshuai 五部元帅. 5) Huiyangjing Zhenlongmiao 惠洋境震龙庙, Xinxunshê 新寻社 is located in Huixia 惠下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Lizhangzhe 李长者. 6) Baorisi 宝日寺 is located in Huishang 惠上. The main god is Rulaifo 如 来佛. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝. 7) Shangtianfu 上天府 is located in Huishang. The main gods are Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 8) Fushunsi 福顺寺 is located in Huixia 惠下. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 9) Shixiatang 释夏堂 is located in Huixia. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 10) Benshantang Buddhist temple 宝积寺 was built in Huishang in Guangxu 27 (1901). (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 11) Shanhetang Buddhist temple 善和堂 (in Huishang) was built in Xuantong 2 (1910). (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 12) Jinxian temple 金仙寺 (Huishang) was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 13) Baoji temple 宝积寺 (Huishang) was built in the Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 14) Shanhean 善和庵 (Huishang) was rebuilt in 1966. (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 15) Yongjuci 永居祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 750 initiates. 16) Mingyitang 明仪堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 425 initiates. 17) Zhonghetang 中和堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 330 initiates. 18) Xingxiatang 行夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 470 initiates. 19) Benshantang 本善堂 was built in Guangxu 27 (1901). (PTZJZ, 1992: 218). 20) Zhengchang temple 真常寺 (Huishang) was built in Republican period (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the Zhou 周 of Yongtai heshê 永泰合社 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on a procession around their territory. On 1/10, the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 of Yongheshê 永和社 do the same in their own territory. On 1/11, the Liu 刘 of Yongan shushê 永安书社 do the same rituals in their own territory. On 1/12, the Fang 方 of Yongtai dongshê 永泰东社 do the same in their territory. On 1/13, the Wu 吴 of Yongtai zhongshê 永泰中社 to the same in their territory. On 1/14, the Chen 陈 of Yongning xishê 永宁西社 do the same in their territory. On 1/15, the Fang 方 of Fangxunshê 方寻社 do the same in their territory. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 of Yongtai xishê 永泰西社 do the same in their territory. On 1/18, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 fetival is held for the eight shê alliance. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 goes on procession within the entire ritual territory of Huiyang. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary third lunar month, these gods are taken on a procession around the eight-fold shê. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. The midautumn festival is celebrated. 
A039 (
V162 Dongdai liujia (Dongdai six jia ritual alliance) 东埭六甲 Dongdai 东埭) 1. Village settlement Dongdai is located along the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. It was originally part part of the Dongdai pu 东埭铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. The village began forming here in the Qing dynasty, and now has around 4000 inhabitants. Dongdai is both a natural village and an Administrative Village. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage and residential settlements into six jia ritual associations: Shanglang 上廊, Xiting 西亭, Houting 后亭, Xizhi 西至, Xicuo 西厝, and Miscellaneous surnames 杂姓. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, Dongdai remained neutral. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zheng 郑 and the Chen 陈. The Zheng are divided into two branches, and live in Shanglang, Xizhi and Xicuo. They also have a Zheng ancestral hall. The Chen are divided into three branches, and lives in Xiting and Houting. There used to be a Chen ancestral hall, but it has been changed into a school. 3. Village temples 1) Dongdaijing Yongxinggong 东埭境永兴宫 is the main temple for the six jia ritual alliance. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. Dongdai six jia ritual alliance 2) Taipingshê 太平社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 3) Lingyingdian 灵应殿 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Chihuci 池壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 5) Kaiyuantang 开元堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 1920 initiates. 6) Zhonghetang 中和堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1350 initiates. 7) Tehuci 特壶祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1406 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4–6, the first opera of the year (Touchangxi 头场戏) is performed. On 1/13, the gods of Taipingshê 太平社 are invited to go to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on a procession within the entire village. Each year, each jia takes turn to be the host, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. One elder is appointed as the overall Fushou 福首. Newly wed men can bid for the chance to carry the statue of the gods. On 1/14, there is the “snatch the Bodhisattva” 抢菩萨 rite. The statue of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 can be detached and brought home for worshipping purposes. Later, it will be returned to the temple along with a monetary tribute. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year of the dragon (once in the twelve year cycle), on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is carried in a sedan chair in a procession around the five shê. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Lanpen pudu 兰盆 普度 Rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are performed. Marionette opera is performed. 
A040 (
V163 Jinshan sijia (Jinshan four jia ritual alliance) 金山四甲 Jinshan 金山) 1. Village settlement Jinshan is also called Daguiyu 大龟屿. It was originally part of the Daguiyupu 大龟屿铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli subcanton 连江里. In the Ming the village of Daguiyu was already settled. Now it is managed by the Jingshan Administrative Village 金山行政村, and village currently has 4278 residents. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage and residential affiliation into four jia ritual associations: Haitou 海头, Weicuo 尾厝, Zhongjing 中境, and Dongshê 东社. In the feuding banner alliances of the later Qing, the four jia of Jinshan were part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱 and the Lin 林. The Zhu are divided into two branches: Shifu 石阜 and Gutian 古田, and the two branches live in Haitou and Zhongjing respectively. Each branch has its own ancestral hall. The Lin are the Lin of Jiumu 九牧林. They emigrated from Yaotai village 窑台村 of Huangshi 黄石, and are said to be the earliest inhabitants of the village. Currently, they live in Dongshê and Weicuo. In recent years, their ancestral hall was rebuilt while their genealogy was revised. 3. Village temples 1) Lianjiangjing Jinshangong 连江境金山宫: Originally built in Qianlong 1 (1736), the temple was rebuilt in 1995. It is the main temple for the four jia ritual alliance of Jinshan. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and the Bajiang 八将. 2) Yonganshê 永安社 is the ancestral shê (zushe) of the four jia ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Yongan zhongshê 永安中社 is decicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Yongan dongshê 永安东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Yongan jingshê 永安井社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Yongan xishê 永安西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. This temple was built in the Daoguang period (1821–1850) and rebuilt in 2001. 7) Lingyingdian 凌应殿 was built in the Qianlong period ( 1736–1795) and rebuilt in 1995. The temple was originally dedicated to Sizhou wenfo 泗洲 文佛. Now the main god is Yuhuangdadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods are:Jinshan four jia ritual alliance Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Xuntan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. The temple preserves the following stelae: Jiaqing 9 (1804) 凌应殿 香灯记 (Record of the Incense and [Oil] lamp [Contributions] to the Temple of Surpassing Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:267, No. 232) and Xianfeng 6 (1856 )建凌应殿碑 (Stone inscription on the reconstruction of the Temple of Surpassing Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:320, No. 284). 8) Muniangdian 母娘殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and Tianshang muniang 天上母娘. The secondary god is Wang xiansheng 王先生. 9) Qingyundong 清云洞 is dedicated to Zhongkui dasheng 钟馗大圣 and Kongfu daren 孔府大人 . 10) Hushu guanshengdian 护书关圣殿 is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣 帝君. The secondary gods are Guanshizi 关世子and Zhoujiangjun 周将军. 11) Yujingmiao 玉井庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 12) Guishanmiao 龟山庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 13) Dewenfu 德文府 is dedicated to Wu daren 吴大人. 14) Lizhangzhe miao 李长者庙 is dedicated to Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者. 15) Meishange 梅山阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 16) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 690 initiates. 17) Mingyuetang 明月堂 was built in 1871. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, the secondary gods are Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 905 initiates. 18) Hongyitang 弘一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 19) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 was destroyed in 1970, rebult in 1990, and enlarged in 2000. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and the secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 20) Deyuantang 德源堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 21) Deshanan 德善庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:218) 22) Hanyitang 涵一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 600 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Zhu 朱 of Haitou 海头 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Zhu 朱 of Zhongjing 中境 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 of Weicuo 尾厝 go on procession within their territory. On 1/12, the Lin 林 of Jingshê 井社 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/13, the Lin 林 of Xishê 西社 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/14, the Lin 林 of Dongshê 东社 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/16 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held for the entire village. The gods of Jinshangong 金山宫 are invited to go on procession to each of the four jia ritual associations. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yonganshê 永安社 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year of the dragon (once in the twelve year cycle), on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is carried in a sedan chair in a procession around the five shê. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Yang jiu niang 杨九娘. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongan xishê 永安西社. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A041 (
V164 Dongjia sijia (Dongjia four jia ritual alliance) 东甲四甲 Dongjia 东甲) 1. Village settlement The four jia ritual alliance of Dongjia is located between the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system and the sea dikes at the mouth of the Mulan river. Dongjia was originally part of the Dongjiaopu 东角铺 of the Lianjiang sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming the village of Dongjia had already been settled, and currently there are approximately 10,000 residents. The village is managed by the two Administrative Villages of Dongjia 东甲 and Xucuo 徐厝. The temple ritual system is divided into four jia ritual associations on the basis of lineage and residence: these are Dongtou 东头, Xicuo 西厝, Xucuo 徐厝, and Xiecuo 谢厝. The Liuqidian 流憩殿 temple of Xucuo 徐厝 (see below) is the main temple of the four jia ritual alliance, and the Xin’anshê 新安社 (see below) is the founding shê of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four jia alliance of Dongjia was part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 makes up 50% if the population of Dongjia and the Xie 谢 makes up another 33%. Other surnames include the Zhu 朱, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Zhang 张, Wang 王, Zhuo 卓, Zhou 周, Wu 吴, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Dongjiamiao 东甲庙, Liuqidian 流憩殿 was originally built in Ming Hongwu 1 (1368), and then was rebuilt in the Qing Tongzhi 3 (1864), and renovated in 1928. The main god is Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods are Zhang Tianshi 张天师 and the Bajiang 八将. This temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 1 (1851) entitled 重整 东甲庙题捐碑 (Stele announcing the merit of those involved in the renovation of the Dongjia Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:318, No. 282) and another stele composed in Guangxu 13 (1887) entitled 东甲庙社公会 碑记 (Stele on the Dongjia temple shê association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:344, No. 307). 2) Xinanshê 新安社, Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Dongjia Xinanshê 东甲新安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Tianbaodian 天保殿 is dedicated to Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. The secondary god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Shunxingfu 顺兴府 was originally built in Guangxu 1 (1875). The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人.Dongjia four jia ritual alliance 6) Donglin chansi 东林禅寺 was built in Tongzhi 11 (1872), it is part of Guishansi 龟山寺. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 7) Feiyunge 飞云阁 was built in Ming Jiajing 4 (1525). The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Donglinci 东麟祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. This temple preserves a stele composed in 1944 entitled 东麟祠香灯产业碑记 (Stone inscription on the properties provided for incense and oil lamps for the Eastern Unicorn Shrine) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:371, No. 337). 9) Ciyunan 慈云庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 10) Chongxunci 崇勋祠 preserves a stele composed by Zheng Yue 郑岳 in the Jiajng period ( 1522–1566) entitled 郡守黄侯修筑石隄碑 (Stele on the repairs and expansion of the stone dike by Prefect Huang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:172, No. 150). 11) Qingshanci 清山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 515 initiates. 12) Dechengci 德成祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 650 initiates. 13) Wanchengci 万成祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 501 initiates. 14) Donglinci 东麟祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 635 initiates. 15) Yushanci 玉山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 740 initiates. 16) Wanxingci 万兴祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 660 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Dongtoujia 东头甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/12, Xicuojia 西厝甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/15, Xucuojia 徐厝甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/16, Xiecuojia 谢厝甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/23, a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held for the four jia ritual alliance. Yuantian shangdi 元天 上帝 of Liuqidian 流憩殿 is invited to go on procession within the entire territory of the four jia of Dongjia 东甲. The gods of Jiangping shushê 江平 书社 are also invited to go on procession within this territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 2/30: 3/15: 3/23: 4/19: 5/13: 8/9: 8/13: 10/13: 11/24: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every lunar third month, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on procession within the four-fold jia. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinanshê 新安社 of Dongjia 东甲. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is celebrated as a midautumn festival. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinanshê 新安社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Dongshan sishê (Dongshan four shê ritual alliance) 东山四社 Dongshan is also called ZouZengXu 邹曾徐 and Sancuo 三厝. It is located between the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system and the coastal sea dikes below the mouth of the Mulan river, near the Dongshan sluice-gate. It was originally part of the Zouzengxupu 邹曾 徐铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. In this area in the Ming there already was a village called Zou Zeng Xu 邹曾徐. Currently, the population of Dongshan is over 10,000 people, and it is managed by two Administrative Villages: Dongshan 东山行政村 and Dongyuan 东源行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of residence and lineage into the four shê ritual associations of Shangzou 上邹, Xiazou 下邹, Dongcuo 东厝, and Zhengcuo 郑厝. The Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 of Shangzou village 上邹 (see below) is the main temple for the four shê ritual association. The two main surnames of this area are the Zou 邹 and the Zheng 郑. The Zou have over 6000 people. The Zou ancestors are said to have emigrated from Zou county of Shandong province 山东邹县 to Putian 莆田 during the Jianyan period of the Southern Song Dynasty (1127–1130). In the Ming dynasty, the Zou were a prominent lineage with many successful examination Dongshan four shê ritual alliance graduates. They produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and seven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Fancan Family Temple 藩参 家庙, first built in Ming Jiajing 29 (1550) and still extant, is the ancestral lineage hall of the Zou of Dongshan 东山, as well as of the Zou of Xindu 新度 and Xiyuan 西园, etc. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four shê of Dongshan were part of the black banner alliance. 
V165 Shangzou 上邹 1. Village settlement Shangzou is part of the Dongshan Administrative Village 东山行政村. The current population of Shangzou is more than 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zou 邹. There are also a small number of the Zeng 曾 families. 3. Village temples 1) Chongjiaogong 崇教宫: Main god: Zhuzi 朱子. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Jiangping shushê 江平书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Li zhangzhe 李长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Aoshen 澳神. 3) Longdetan 隆德坛: Main god: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Mingxiatang 明夏堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 5) Dongshan 东山 Xingrenci 行仁祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 3000 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Jiangping shushê 江平书社 are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 go on procession within the four shê ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Every year of the dragon, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 go on procession within the five-fold shê on a day determined by divination. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Xiazou 下邹 1. Village settlement Xiazou is part of Dongyuan Administrative Village 东源行政村. The current population is approximately 5000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zou 邹. There are also a small number of the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wen Sima shengwang 文司马圣王, Wu Sima shengwang 武司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 and Li zhangzhe 李长者. 2) Xuanlugong 玄鲁宫 (Beijidian 北极殿): Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wang lingguan 王灵官, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xingdongmiao 兴东庙: Main god: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Shanshuitang 山水堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1619 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, the gods of Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15 a general Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê are invited to go on procession within the four shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every 12 years, on a day determined by divination, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on procession within the four shê alliance. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Marionette plays are performed. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Xingdongmiao 兴东庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Denglong zushê 登龙祖社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V167 Dongcuo 东厝 1. Village settlement Dongcuo is part of the Dongshan Administrative Village 东山行政村. The current population is approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 徐. There are also close to 200 people of the Yu 余 surname. The Yu of the village came from Xiyu 西余 of Dongjiao 东郊, and are of the same ancestry as the Yu of Duwei 度尾余氏. Their lineage hall name 堂号 is Cishu 赐书. There currently exists the Yushi Qianxianci 余氏佥宪祠 and the Xianghetang 祥和堂. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxingshê 中兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Xiandemiao 显德庙, Qingling fu 清灵府 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相宫, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 3) Shengpinggong 盛平宫: Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公 元帅. 4) Jufengting 举风亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Hongxiatang 宏夏堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Shayundong 沙云洞: Main god: Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Sanye 三爷, Siye 四爷. 7) Shanyuntang 善云堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 990 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the gods of Zhongxingshê 中兴社 are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê 登龙 祖社 are invited to go on procession within the four shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every dragon year, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession within the four shê alliance on a day determined by divination. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxingshê 中兴社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Daye 大爷 of Shayundong 沙云洞. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V168 Zhengcuo 郑厝 1. Village settlement Zhengcuo is part of the Dongshan Administrative Village 东山行政村. There are currently more than 1500 people living in the village, of whom over two thirds are Christians. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Aoshen 澳神. 2) Shanyuntang 善云堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1322 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the gods of Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 are taken to each (non-Christian) household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15 an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 are invited to go on procession within the four shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A043 (
V169 Dounan wushê (Dounan five shê ritual alliance) 斗南五社 Dounan 斗南 1. Village settlement Dounan is also called Doumentou 斗门头. Dounan is located on the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. Dounan was originally part of the Yantou Dounanpu 岩头斗 南铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. The village first took shape during the Qing. The current population is more than 2000 people. Donan is both an Administrative Village as well as a natural village. The temple ritual system is divided primarily by surname into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Zhu 朱, Lin 林, Zheng 郑, and Yang 杨. There are also the minor surnames of Cai 蔡, Luo 罗, Zhang 张, and Zhang 章. 3. Village temples 1) Nanyanggong 南阳宫: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. 5) Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Xingtaishê 兴泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the Lin 林 invite the gods of Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Zhu 朱 invite the gods of Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/11, the Luo 罗, Zhang 张, Zhang 章 and Cai 蔡 invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry Dounan five shê alliance out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/12, the Yang 杨 invite the gods of Xingtaishê 兴泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 invite the gods of Xingxian shushê 兴贤 书社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/24, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated by the entire village. The gods of Nanyanggong 南阳宫 are invited to go on procession within the five shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A044 (
V170 Pingshan wushê (Pingshan five shê ritual alliance) 屏山五社 Pingshan 屏山) 1. Village settlement The five shê alliance of Pingshan is located alongside the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. Pingshan was originally part of the Qiantangpu 钱塘铺 (police/defense unit) of the Pingshan Xingfuli sub-canton 屏山兴福里. In the Ming, the village of Chenshan 陈山 was already settled in this area. In the Qing the village of Hucuo 湖厝 (now known as Meihu 梅湖) separated off. These are now combined into Pingshan 屏山 village, which has a population of more than 3000 people, and which is managed by the Pingshan Administrative Village 屏山 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to surnames and settlement into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. Other surnames include the Liu 刘, Xu 徐, Zhang 张, and Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Taihegong 太和宫: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 2) Yicheng zushê 义成祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Yicheng xingshê 义成兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Yicheng shushê 义成书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Pingshan five shê ritual alliance 5) Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Meihujing Guangrong shushê 梅湖境光荣书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Erye 二爷, Sanye 三爷. 7) Zongkongci 宗孔祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Meihu 梅湖 invites the gods of Guangrong shushê 光荣书社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/12, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of Yicheng shushê 义成书社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/13, the miscellaneous surname group 杂姓 invites the gods of Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/14, the Li 李 invite the gods of Yicheng xingshê 义成兴社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/15, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of Yicheng zushê 义成祖社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/20–30, on a day determined by divination, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 festival for the five shê alliance is held. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to go on procession around Pingshan 屏山 and Meihu. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yicheng zushê 义成祖社. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社. 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Guangrong shushê 光荣书社. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yicheng shushê 义成书社. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Houji qijing (Houji sevenfold ritual alliance) 后积七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Houji is located along the sea-dikes near the mouth of the Mulan 木兰 River. In the early Qing, this region was considered out of bounds (jiewai 界外), and was evacuated. The area was originally part of the Houjipu 后积铺 of Dongxiang 东乡and the Chengkoupu 程口铺 (police/defense units) of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. In the Ming there were already the villages of Dongzhang 东张, Houji 后积, Chengkou 澄口, and Yangbin 洋滨. In the Qing, the villages of Qicuo 歧厝 and Louxia 楼下 separated off. Currently the population is over 8000 people, divided into three Administrative Villages, namely Dongfeng 东风, Tingjiang 汀江 and Tingfeng 汀峰. The Wanlinggong 万灵宫 temple, located in Houji village, is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Kong Daren 孔大人 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Each year on lunar 1/29 to 2/2, Wulu jiangjun is carried in a procession to the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Every sixty years, Kong Daren is carried in a great procession around scores of villages in the vicinity. These events are organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of the sevenfold ritual alliance, with each village having a voice in the decisions. The Zhu surname of Chengkou 澄口朱 was historically a prominent lineage with many examination graduates, producing two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) during the Ming. In Ming Chenghua 11 (1475) the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway for the Zhu lineage of Chengkou village 澄口朱. In Ming Chenghua (1476) the Putian District Magistrate 莆田知县 set up a Jingbiao zhenjie 旌表贞节牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage of Chengkou village 澄口吴. In Ming Hongzhi 2 (1489), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Chaoyang mingfeng 朝阳鸣凤牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage of Chengkou 澄口张. 
V171 Dongxiang 东乡 1. Village settlement Dongxiang was originally known as Dongzhang 东张, and is part of the Dongfeng Administrative Village 东风行政. Dongxiang has a total population of approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Zou 邹, the Weng 翁, and the Lin 林. The Chen make up two thirds of the population. 3. Village temples 1) Dongshanjing shiwushê 东山境石屋社 Canglonggong 苍龙宫. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Houji qijing sevenfold ritual alliance Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yangshi jiuniang 杨氏九娘, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷. 2) Dongxingdian 东兴殿: The main god is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Secondary gods include Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 3) Chongxingan 重兴庵: The main god is Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4) Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 is in Dongcuojing ritual territory 东厝境: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Aoshen 澳神. 5) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马 圣王 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 6) Jufengting 举风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Shayundong 沙云洞: The main god is Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Dongshan region 东山境 invites all the gods of Shiwushê 石屋社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual. The celebration is organized by the territory itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 the Dongcuojing 东厝境 invites all the gods of the Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 and the Xingxian lishê 兴贤里 社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the territory itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Mingtongdian 明通殿 and funding is collected through voluntary contributions. Beidou marionette opera 北斗戏 is performed. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the whole village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Marionette plays are performed. The celebration is organized by the Dongxingdian 东兴殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Dongshanjing 东山境, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣候 is also the occasion for the performance of the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts, which involves the performance of Mulien plays 目莲戏 (usually with marionettes). Three in One Scripture Masters 经师 are invited to perform the rites. This event is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. This is organized by the Dongcuo region 东厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shiwushê 石屋社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongshan ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongcuo 东厝 ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongcuo 东厝 ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣候 is also the occasion for the performance of the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts, which involves the performance of Mulien plays 目莲戏 (usually with marionettes). Three in One Scripture Masters 经师 are invited to perform the rites. 
V172 Houji 后积 1. Village settlement Houji is part of Dongfeng Administrative Village 东风行政村. Houji village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Xu 徐, the Lin 林, and the Weng 翁. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 and a Manichean stele 摩尼教残碑 has been preserved in the Wanlinggong 万灵宫. 3. Village temples 1) The Yongxingshê 永兴社 is within the Wanlinggong 万灵宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Kong daren 孔大人 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷. 2) Houshanci 厚山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 all the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 and the Wanlinggong 万灵宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路 将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanling gong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. The Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. For all the events above, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by Houshanci 厚山祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 10/17: The birthday celebration of Kong daren 孔大人. On this occasion, as for the birthday of the gods of the shê altar preceeding it, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every 60 years, Kong daren of Xiling 西灵孔大人 goes on procession around the numerous villages in the region. These events are organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and each village sends a representative to participate in the management of the event. Kong Daren is considered one of the most powerful Wangye 王爷 of the Putian plains. Qicuo 歧厝 1. Village settlement Qicuo is part of Dongfeng Administrative Village 东风行政村. The population of Qicuo is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yu 余. There are 200 people in this village who are Christians. 3. Village temples 1) The Wananshê 万安社 is within the Qishangong 歧山宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Qishanci 歧山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Chensheng fashi 陈圣法师. 3) Jinquansi 金泉寺: The main gods are Shijia wenfo 释伽文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 all the gods of Wananshê 万安社 and the Qishangong 歧山宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V174 Yangbian 洋边 1. Village settlement Yangbian was originally known as Yangbin 洋滨. Yangbian is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The population of Yangbian is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄and the Zhou 周. There is a Zhou ancestral hall 周氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) The Taipingshê 太平社 is within the Lingqigong 灵崎宫: The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Yangfengci 杨峰祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, all the gods of Taipingshê 太平社 and the Lingqigong 灵崎宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. For both these celebrations, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V175 Qianchengkou 前程口 1. Village settlement Qianchengkou was originally called Chengkou 澄口. Qianchengou is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行 政村. Qianchengkou has a total population of approximately 1800 people. It is divided into a Lin region 林境 and the mixed region 杂境 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Fang 方 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Chengjiangjing Qiantanggong 澄江境钱塘宫 includes the Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhaoling shengjun 昭灵圣君, and Jixing dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 is co-owned with Louxia 楼下: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 3) Fengchici 凤池祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 250 initiates. 4) Fengshanci 凤山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 195 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the Lin 林 segment of the village invites all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and the Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/9 the mixed-surname segment 杂姓 of the village invites all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 to go on procession within its territory and that of Louxia 楼下 village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this territory itself and by Louxia village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 marionette plays are performed. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/5: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. For both these celebrations, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This occasion, which involves opera and ritual performances, is organized by the mixed surname segment 杂境 of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within its territory. 5/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This occasion, which involves opera and ritual performances. These events are organized by the Lin segment 林境 of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within its territory. 
V176 Louxia 楼下 1. Village settlement Louxia is is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The population of Louxia is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Yaobogong 瑶波宫: The main god is Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 2) Wenminggong 文明宫: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Bi yuanshuai 毕元帅, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Xin yuanshuai 辛元帅, Zhan yuanshuai 占元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, and Guan yuanshuai 关元帅. 3) Yizhong tang 一中堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Sanguan daren 三官大人, and Hu ye 虎爷. 4) Rendetang Buddhist temple 仁德堂. (PTZJZ, 1992:204). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this territory itself and by the mixed surname group in Qianchengkou 前程口, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession through all the villages within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed, and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/21: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 from Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 (of Qianchengkou village). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this village itself and by the mixed surname group 杂姓 in Qianchengkou 前程口 and funds are collected on a per capita basis within these areas.. 
V177 Houchengkou 后程口 1. Village settlement Houchengkou is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The village is also known as Chengkou 澄口. The population of Houchengkou is approximately 1600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Guo 郭. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Qi 祁, Lin 林, and Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Chengjiangjing Xingneng zongshê 澄江境兴能总社: The temple was built in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Chengjiangjing Xingneng zushê 澄江境兴能祖社 is within the Ruiyungong 瑞云宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lei daren 雷大人, Bai daren 白大人, Hei daren 黑大人, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Tingjiangjing Xixinggong 汀江境西兴宫: The main god is Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wuying Yuanshuai 五营元帅. 4) Chengjianggong 澄江宫 contains a Taishifu 太师府: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Heidaren 黑大人. 5) Qingfengting 清风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Xingneng zuzhe 兴能祖社 and Ruiyungong 瑞云宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession through all the villages within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance The birthday celebrations of the Gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/19: The birthday celebration of Bai daren 白大人. 11/17: The birthday celebration of Hei daren 黑大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A046 Chengyang qijing (Chengyang sevenfold ritual alliance) 呈洋七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Chengyang is located alongside the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. In the early Qing, this region was considered out of bounds (jiewai 界外), and was evacuated. These villages originally were part of the Liushan bangtoupu 刘山 榜头铺 (police/defense unit) and Chengyangpu 程洋铺 which belonged to Chengyang sevenfold ritual alliance the Xingfuli 兴福里 sub-canton. In the Ming there were already the village settlements of Bangtou 榜头, Chengyang 程洋, and Hangjing 杭井, and in the Qing the villages of Chencuo 陈厝, Licuo 李厝, and Xiecuo 谢厝 separated off. Currently the population of this area is close to 10, 000 people, and it is administered through the Beigao 北高 and Chengshan Administrative Villages 呈山行政村. The Qunying shushê 群英书社 temple, located in Fangjing 坊井 village, is the founding shê altar of the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. The Chengxianggong 呈祥宫 in Chengbian 埕边 village is the main overall temple of the sevenfold alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the member villages of the sevenfold alliance goes to the Qunying shushê 群英 书社 to take the god on a procession. Each year on lunar 2/25, they carry Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the Chengyanggon 呈祥宫 in a procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the entire sevenfold ritual alliance of Chengyang was part of the white banner alliance. 
V178 Chengbian 埕边 1. Village settlement Chengbian was originally known as Chengyang 程洋 or Licuo 李厝, and it included Wudun 吴墩. Chengbian is part of the Chengyang Administrative Village 呈洋行政村. The population is approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李. There is a Li ancestral hall李氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Xingheshê 兴和社 is within the Chengxianggong 呈祥宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the Li 李 surname group invites all the gods of Xingheshê 兴和社 and the Chengxianggong 呈祥宫 to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Li 李 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The god is taken on a procession around the sevenfold alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen 下陈 village and the Li 李 surname group. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is also organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen village 下陈 and the Li 李 surname group. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingheshê 兴和社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Li 李 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxianshê 兴贤社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the village as a whole, together with Xiachen下陈village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23:Xiachen 下陈 1. Village settlement Xiachen village was originally called Chencuo 陈厝. It includes the settlements of Dingchen 顶陈, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Xihu 西湖. Xiachen is part of the Chengshan Administrative Village 呈山行政村. The current population is over 1200. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxianshê 兴贤社 is within the Lingcigong 灵慈宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhong jun 中军. 2) Dexingfu 德兴府 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Other gods include Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Zhumaan Buddhist temple 驻马庵 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992: 225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Chen 陈 surname group invites all the gods of Xingxianshê 兴贤社 and the Lingcigong 灵慈宫 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The ritual is organized by the Chen 陈 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The birthday of Zhongjun 中军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen village 下陈 and the Li 李 of Chengbian 埕边. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is also organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen village 下陈 and the Li 李of Chengbian埕边. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Xingxianshê 兴贤社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: 
V180 Gouge 沟戈 1. Village settlement Gouge village belongs to the Chengshan Administrative Village 呈山行政村. The population of Gouge village is approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The village includes members of several surname groups, including the Yu 余, the Chen 陈, the Zhu 朱, and the Li 李. The Chen 陈 and the Yu 余 are the largest surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Laideng shushê 莱登书社 is within the Mingshangong 名山宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Other gods include Huangfu yuanshuai 黄府元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Zhuishuiting Buddhist temple 竺水亭 was built in Xianfeng 10 (1860). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 the incense burner of the temple is invited to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/16 the gods of the Laideng shushê 莱登书社 are invited on a procession around the village and its boundaries. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters carry out rituals. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of Chengxianggong temple 呈祥宫 3/23: The birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/15: The birthday of Huangfu yuanshuai 黄府元帅. 7/7: The birthday of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is celebrated. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated. In the 11th lunar month, the Lanpen pudu rite of Universal Deliverance 兰盆 普度 is held. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual specialists or Three in One Scripture masters are invited to carry out rituals. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V181 Matou 码头 1. Village settlement Matou was originally called Bangtou 榜头, and it includes Liushan 留山 (also written 刘山), and is part of Chengshan Administrative Village 呈山行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The village has members of the Zhu 朱 and the Chen 陈 surname groups. The Zhu are the largest surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Bangtoujing 榜头境 Denglai xinshê 登莱新社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) 留山祠 Liushanci is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 265 initiates. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 200 initiates. 4) Longshantang 龙山堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 320 initiates. 5) Manyuantang 满源堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 200 initiates. 6) Xianglinan Buddhist temple 香林庵 was built in early Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:206) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Denglai shushê 登莱书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Chengxianggong’s 呈祥宫 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V182 Fangjing 坊井 1. Village settlement Fangjing village was originally called Hangjing 杭井. Fangjing belongs to the Beigao Administrative Village 北高行政村. The current population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Gao 高, the Wu 吴 and the Chen 陈. The Gao and the Wu are the dominant surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Qunying shushê 群英书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lü Dongma 吕洞妈, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Lü Dongma 吕洞妈 is invited from the temple to the homes of the Fushou 福首 to give blessings. On 1/15 a circle of lanterns is formed in a procession. Three Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform a Jiao 醮 ritual. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the Chengxianggong’s 呈祥宫 around the entire ritual alliance. 6/6: The birthday of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/23: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V183 Shecuo 社厝 1. Village settlement Shecuo originally was called Xiecuo 谢庴. Shecuo belongs to the Beigao Administrative Village 北高行政村. The current village population is aproximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The following surnames are found in the village: the Li 李, the Xie 谢, the Guo 郭, the Fang 方 and the Chen 陈. The Li are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Fuanshê 福安社 is included in the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘. Other gods include Niushan dawang 牛山大王, Kangwang yuanshuai 康王元帅 and Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Dufei niangniang 都妃 娘娘 is invited to go on a tour of inspection of the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Chengyanggong’s 呈祥宫 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 around the entire ritual alliance. 4/8: The birthday of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 9/19: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. 10/19: The birthday of Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/6: The birthday of Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘. No opera is performed. Five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V184 Beigao 北高 1. Village settlement The village was originally known as the settlements of Gaolou 高楼 and Qiaotoudian 桥头店. Nowadays they have been absorbed into the streets of Beigao town 北高街道. The population of the area is over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups This area has the following surname groups: the Li 李, the Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxianshê 兴贤社 of Gaoloujing 高楼境 worships Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 2) Jieshuiting 接水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天 and Jialan wenfo 迦蓝文佛. 3) Shuanglinan Buddhist nunnery 双林庵 was built in Daoguang 20 (1840). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Xingxianshê 兴贤社 are invited to each household to xingdao 行道, and there are processions of lanterns 圈灯. On 1/17 the gods go on a tour of inspection of the borders of the area 绕境巡游. Fireworks are exploded 放炮 and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform Jiao 醮 rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. There are performances of opera and Daoist rituals 醮. Each time there is an intercalary 7th lunar month, Zhanggong is invited to go on a procession around the entire ritual alliance. 9/19: The birthday of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is celebrated. 10/23: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 of the Xingxianshê 兴贤社 is celebrated. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A047 Kengyuan jiucun (Kengyuan nine village ritual alliance) 坑园九村 The Kengyuan nine village ritual alliance is located along the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. In the early Qing, this region was considered out of bounds (jiewai 界外), and was evacuated. This area originally belonged to the Gengyuan yuanhoupu 耕原院后舖 (police/defense unit) of Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Kengyuan was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Yuanhou 院后 and Qiandun 前墩 separated off. Currrently, there are over 6000 people living in the area, which is managed by the three Administrative Villages of Kengyuan 坑园, Yuanhou 院后 and Lingtou 岭头. The local temple ritual system is divided into the nine villages of Shangkengyuan 上坑园, Xiakengyuan 下坑园, Dongdu东渡, Shanglingtou 上岭头, Xialingtou 下岭 头, Muqian 墓前, Shangyuanhou 上院后, Xiayuanhou 下院后 and Qiandun 前墩. These are commonly referred to as the Kengyuan jiuqiao (nine holes) 坑园九窍. The Fanglinggong 芳岭宫 temple, located in Xiakengyuan 下坑园 village, is the main temple of the nine village ritual alliance. The main god is Xiling Kong Daren 西岭孔大人. Every year with an intercalary lunar second month Xiling Kong daren is taken on a procession to each village in the nine village alliance. Historically, the Wang lineage 王 of Kengyuan was known for its examination graduates. In the Ming dynasty they produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and five Juren (Provincial Graduates) 举人. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the nine village alliance of Kengyuan was part of the black banner alliance. 
V185 Shangkengyuan 上坑园 1. Village settlement Shangkengyuan belongs to the Kengyuan Administrative Village 坑园行政村. The village currently has a population of approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The Wang 王 make up the dominant surname group. The village has an ancestral hall called the Sanhuaitang Wangshi zongci 三槐 堂王氏宗祠. Kengyuan nine village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Wenchenggong 文成宫 contains the Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社. The main gods worshipped are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师 and Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 villagers go to the Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社 of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 to invite the incense burners from the shê-altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 Magong taishi 马公 太师 goes on a procession to inspect the village boundaries. Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 2/2: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is celebrated and organized by Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Dongdu 东渡 together. Opera is performed and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated. On 6/6: The birthday of Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书 is celebrated. On the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V186 Xiakengyuan 下坑园 1. Village settlement Xiakengyuan belongs to the Kengyuan Administrative Village 坑园行政村. The current population is over 850 people. 2. Surname groups The Wang 王 are the dominant surname group. There is a Wang lineage hall 王氏宗祠, and each year five Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社 is shared with Shangkengyuan 上坑园 and with Dongdu village 东渡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书. 2) Fanglinggong 芳岭宫 is dedicated to Xiling (Kong) daren 西岭(孔)大人. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Shengfu 圣父, Shengmu 圣母, Lan daren 蓝大人, Bai daren 白大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 the gods of Fanglinggong 芳岭宫 go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual 做醮. Each time there is an intercalary 2nd lunar month, on the first day of the 2nd month villagers go to Houji 后积 to present incense to Kong Daren 孔大人, and then go on a procession through all the villages of the Kengyuan jiuqiao 坑园九窍 ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized together with the villages of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Dongdu 东渡. Funding is raised on a per capita basis from all three villages. 6/6: The birthday of Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书 is celebrated. 7/7: The birthday of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 are celebrated. Marionette plays are performed. 8/23: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is celebrated. 10/26: The birthday of Xiling Kong daren 西岭孔大人 is celebrated. On all the above occasions, unless otherwise indicated, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V187 Dongdu 东渡 1. Village settlement Dongdu village belongs to the Kengyuan Administrative Village 坑园行政村. The current village population is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Wang 王 are the predominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Jingyitang 精一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 villagers go to the Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社 of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 to invite the incense burners from the shê-altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/16, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 goes on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 2/2: The birthday of Zunzhu ming wang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized together with the villages of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Shangkengyuan上坑园. Opera is performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis from all three villages. 3/15: The birthdays of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rituals 7/16: The birthday of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is celebrated. Opera is performed and ritual masters conduct rituals Lingtou 岭头 1. Village settlement Lingtou belongs to the Lingtou Administrative Village 岭头行政村. The village includes the settlements of Shanglingtou 上岭头 and Xialingtou 下岭头. The current population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Lingtou includes members of the following surname groups: the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the Wang 王 and the Yang 杨. The Chen are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Fulingjing Anminshê 福岭境安民社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Jiu niangniang 九娘妈, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 2) Fangshanggong 芳山宫 (Taishifu 太师府) was built in Qianlong 51 (1786). The main god worshipped is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Other gods are Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘 and Erlang shen 二郎神 3) Fumating 福马亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Baofengyuan 宝峰院 was built in Zhihe 1 (1054) by the Buddhist Monk Ciming 慈明 and was rebuilt in Hongwu 8 (1375). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 5) Tongming Buddhist temple 通明寺 was rebuilt in 1917. (PTZJZ, 1992: 226) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Anminshê 安民社 go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 8/26: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. This event is organized together with the villages of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Dongdu 东渡. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: the birthday of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 
V189 Muqian 墓前 1. Village settlement Muqian belongs to the Lingtou Administrative Village 岭头行政村. The current population is over 725 people. 2. Surname groups In Muqian, the Chen 陈 surname group is dominant. There are also villagers surnamed Lin 林 and Zhu 朱. There is a Chen great lineage hall 陈氏大宗祠 in which Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is worshipped. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected to manage the hall by drawing lots. 3. Village temples 1) Buxianjing Fudezhengshê 步仙境福德正社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Huanggong ershi 黄公 二使. 2) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 3) The Renshouting 仁寿亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Rendefu 仁德府 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The Huye (tiger god) 虎爷 is also worshipped there. 5) Qingyudong 青云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, with Li daren 李大人 also worshipped. 6) Wanshantang 万善堂 is dedicated to Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/15 the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while a single Daoist ritual master conducts a simple Jiao ritual 做醮. In the evening, a procession of linked lanterns is held 圈灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 7/16 the birthday of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is celebrated and opera is performed. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 
V190 Shangyuanhou 上院后 1. Village settlement Shangyuanhou belongs to the Yuanhou Administrative Village 院后行政村. The village currently has approximately 600 people, 2. Surname groups There are members of the Liu 刘, the Ye 叶 and the Chen 陈 surname groups in the village, but no one group is dominant. 3. Village temples 1) Yangnan zhongshê 洋南中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Qingxiaogong 青宵宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Jubaomiao 聚宝庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Baoen xiangji Buddhist temple 报恩香积院 was built in Jingde 1 (1004). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 5) Juxingtang Buddhist temple 聚兴堂 was built in the late Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/10 the gods go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 6/19: The birthday of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 8/26: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. 
V191 Xiayuanhou 下院后 1. Village settlement Xiayuanhou is part of the Yuanhou Administrative Village 院后行政村. The current population is over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups There are members of the Liu 刘, the Chen 陈, and Ye 叶 and other surname groups in the village. The Liu are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 is dedicated to the worship of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The other gods worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 2) Qingxiaogong 青宵宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Baoshuigong 保水庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/15 the gods go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. 10/20: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. 
V192 Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement Qiandun village belongs to the Yuanhou administrative village region 院后行政村. The population of the village is currently approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The village has members of the Liu 刘, the Ye 叶, and the Chen 陈 surname groups, but no one group is dominant. 3. Village temples 1) Julongmiao 聚龙庙 or Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Jumingci 聚明祠 was built in the late Ming dynasty. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. The hall has over 100 Three in One initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers go to Xiayuanhou 下院后 to the Yongxing zhongshê 永兴中社 to invite the incense burners from the shê-altar to be taken to each household to xingdao 行道. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/12, the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of gods go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 3/3 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. On 7/16 the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is celebrated with opera and Three in One rituals. 
A048 (
V193 Zhengtang wushê (Zhengtang five shê ritual alliance) 郑塘五社 Zhengtang 郑塘) 1. Village settlement Zhengtang village is situated alongside the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This areas was originally part of the Zhengtangpu 郑塘 铺 (police/defense unit) of Putianli 莆田里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Zhengtang 郑塘 was already settled, and in the Qing, the villages of Kengbian 坑边 and Tianbian 田边 separated off. Currently all these villages have linked into one continuous village, which is managed by the Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. The current population is around 1350 people, of which some 200 are Christians. In the local temple ritual system, the population is divided up according to lineages into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Fang 方, and Fan范. Each surname group has established its own shê-altar. Currently the Lin have declined, and so only four surname groups are now active in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Longtanggong 龙塘宫 contains the altar of the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 which belongs to the Fang 方. This temple was originally the overall main temple of Zhengtang. The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 2) Qianlongshê 前隆社is inside the Longanmiao 龙安庙 and belongs to the Huang 黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅.Zhengtang five shê ritual alliance 3) Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社 is within the Yanningmiao 延宁庙 and belongs to the Fan 范. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Lifu daren 李府大人. 4) Hou’an huangshê 后安黄社 belongs to the Huang 黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Zouma sheren 走马舍人. 5) Weilonggong 威龙宫 belongs to the Huang 黄. The main god is Jindaren 金大人, secondary gods include a pair of generals 两位将军. On 12/17 marionette plays are performed. 6) Houan zhengshê 后安正社 of Longqinggong 龙清宫 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Tiansheng shengmu 天上圣母. 7) Budongtang 步东堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 346 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the Qianlongshê 前隆社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/6 the Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社 carries Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/7 the Houan Huangshê 后安黄社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/8 the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/9 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Houan zhengshê 后安正社 is invited on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/20 the village holds a general Yuanxiao festival. However, because in recent years the various processions from the different shê clashed, there is no longer a general Yuanxiao festival held in the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/1: Yanggong taishi of Fengshangong 凤山宫杨公太师 goes on procession through the Tangxia thirteen village alliance 塘下十三乡, and stays in the village in the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 and the Houan huangshê 后安黄社接驾. Opera is performed for two days. 8/23: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Qianlongshê 前隆社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Huang 黄. 10/16: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Fang 方. 11/1: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Houan huangshê 后安黄社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Huang 黄. 12/17: Celebrations for Jindaren 金大人 of Weilonggong 威龙宫. Marionette plays are peformed. This event is organized by the Huang. 12/23: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Fan 范. 
A049 Zhukeng qijing (Zhukeng sevenfold ritual alliance) 珠坑七境 The Zhukeng sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the edges of the Guoqingtang Reservoir 国清塘. This area was originally part of the Zhukengpu 珠坑舖 (police/defense unit) of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming, the village of Chuandu 船渡 was already settled, and in the Qing, the villages of Songu 宋墓, Shanzitou 山仔头 and Shanqianzi 山前仔 had separated off. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to lineage and to settlement into seven shê 七社 ritual associations, also called seven jing 七境 (ritual territories). The Wangshantang 万善堂 temple in Songmu 宋墓 village is the main Pu temple 铺宫 (Defense Unit Temple) of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhukeng. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. According to local legend, there were once collective ritual processions to this temple. Currently, because the Pu Temple rituals have not been revived, the god statues have been distributed to the temples of each of the member villages of the ritual alliance. Songmu 宋墓, Chuandu 船渡 and Shantou 山头 villages take part in the Lantian 蓝田十八乡eighteen village procession, while Shanqianzi 山前仔 takes part in the Tangxia 塘下十三乡 thirteen village procession. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhukeng was part of the white banner alliance. 
V194 Songmu 宋墓 1. Village settlement Songmu is part of the Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. The population of Songmu is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Xin 辛, the Zhang 张, the Chen陈, the Huang 黄, and the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Dongyuanjing Yongangong 东园境永安宫, Zhukengshê 珠坑社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu Zhukeng sevenfold ritual alliance furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Wanshantang 万善堂: The main gods are Chen dage 陈大哥 and Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Zhang erye 张二爷, Zhu sanye 朱三爷, and Wu guniang 吴姑娘. 3) Dongyuantang 东园堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 22 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 all the gods of Yongangong 永安宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V195 Shantou 山头 1. Village settlement Shantou is part of Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. Shantou village is divided into the Shangshê 上社 and Xishê 西社. Both territories have a total population of approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Pan 潘, the Liu 刘, the Xin 辛, the Huang 黄, the Wu 吴, and the Wang 王. 3. Village temples 1) Jinfengjing Xianyingmiao 锦峰境显应庙, Zhukengshang xishê 珠坑上西社 was rebuilt in Xuantong 1 (1909). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Qingyuanci 清源祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 76 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Xishê 西社 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within their part of the village. The Xishê half of the village organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 Shangshê 上社 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within their part of the village. The Shangshê 上社 half of the village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16 a general Yuanxiao is held. Lanterns are carried in a procession, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V196 Chuandu 船渡 1. Village settlement Chuandu is part of the Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. The population of Chuandu is approximately 1000 people. Chuandu is divided into three shê ritual associations: Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社, Longxing xiashê 隆兴下社 and Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Gudujing Longfenggong 古渡境龙凤宫, Longxing shangxiashê 隆兴上下社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (two statues), Houtu furen 后土夫人 (two statues), and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Wuwei diye 五位帝爷, Zhou gong 周公, Baisui ma 百岁妈, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Gudujing Xinxinggong 古渡境新兴宫, Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4) Zhongyitang 中一堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 551 initiates. 5) Tongminggong 通明宫: The main god is Lüzu xianshi 吕祖先师. Secondary gods include Wu daren 武大人, Huang daren 黄大人, Song daren 宋大人, Song jiangjun 宋将军, Li zhongjun 李中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the Huang 黄 surname group invites all the gods of Xinxinggong 新兴宫 and Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/10 the Liu 刘 surname group invites all the gods of Longfenggong 龙凤宫 and the Longxing shangxiashê 隆兴上下社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Liu surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The birthday celebration of Wu daren 武大人. Marionette plays are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Tongminggong 通明宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration organized by the Liu 刘, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Huang daren 黄大人. Marionette plays are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by Tongming gong 通明宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Liu 刘, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Song daren 宋大人. Marionette plays are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Tongminggong 通明宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A050 Lantian shibaxiang (Lantian eighteen village alliance) 蓝田十八乡 The eighteen village alliance of Lantian is located alongside the Guoqingtang 国清塘Reservoir. In the early Qing, this area was declared out of bounds (jiewai 界外) and was evacuated. In the Ming the village of Lantian 蓝田 (Nantian 南田) was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Zhengjing 郑井 (Danjing 丹井), Muqian 墓前, Houwuzi 后吴仔, Guanpu 官埔, Xiazheng 下郑 (Xiacheng 霞城), Shangxin 上辛, Mubing 墓柄, Shidou 石兜, Guanhu 官湖, Chenxi 陈溪, Xucuo 徐厝, Zhangcuo 章厝, Shantouxia 山头下, Ketang 可塘, Houxiang 后巷, Kengdong 坑东, Lingkou 岭口, Dongsha 东沙, Lantian eighteen village ritual alliance Caomang 草莽, Sutang 苏塘 (Zhutang 珠塘) were settled. Recently, the villages of Dingkengyuan 顶坑园, Chuandu 船渡, Songmu 宋墓 (Dongyuan 东园), Shantou 山头 and Fuling 福岭 and other villages have also joined in the Lantian eighteen village alliance ritual system, so that there is now a total of over twenty villages in the alliance. This area was originally part of the Lantianpu (police/defense unit) 蓝田铺, the Fulingpu 福岭铺, the Xinzheng pu 辛郑铺 and the Shihu luozhaipu 石湖罗宅铺 of the Hepuli sub-canton 合浦里. These villages are managed by four Administrative Villages: Xiazheng 下郑, Laitang 来塘, Laizhai 濑宅 and Sutang 苏塘行政村. The Yongangong 永安宫 temple, located in Lantian 蓝田 village, is the main temple for the eighteen village ritual alliance. The main god worshipped in the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each year on lunar 3/3, divination blocks are cast in the Yongangong 永安宫 to determine whether or not to invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on procession through the eighteen village alliance. At the same time, by casting divination blocks a Xunbu 巡捕 Inspector of the Pu police/defense unit is selected. This individual dresses as a Qing dynasty Pu Inspector and reports to the official Pu headquarters (guanpu 官埔). Thereupon begins the striking of the streets (dajie 打街) rite to clear the way for the god. Only then is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 invited out to go on procession. In the late Qing feuding banner alliances, the eighteen villages of Lantian are all part of the black banner alliance. 
V197 Lantian 蓝田 1. Village settlement Lantian is also known as Nantiang 南田 and is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The population of Lantian village is above 1500 people. 2. Surname groups Lantian has the following main surname groups: the Huang 黄 and the Zhang 张. In addition there are also the Lin 林, the Dai 戴, the Weng 翁, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Kang 康 surnames in the village. Lantian is divided into the Shangshê 上社 and the Zhongshê 中社. Each year each part of the village selects two Fushou 福首 by rotation. 3. Village temples 1) Lantianjing Yongangong 蓝田境永安宫 contains the altar of the Yongan shangshê 永安上社. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu (two statues) 天上圣母, Lieqiao daren 烈窍大人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, Asan 阿三, Asi 阿四, and Bajiang 八将. 2) Yongan zhongshê 永安中社. The main gods are, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Xinfatang 新发堂: The main gods are Chen dage 陈大哥, Liu dage 柳大哥 and Zeng dage 曾大哥. 4) Qingliangci 清莲祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 309 initiates. 5) Yixingci 义兴祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 293 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9: the incense burners of Yongan zhongshê 永安中社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods are taken on a tour of inspection of the village boundaries. On 1/10–11, the incense burners of Yongan shangshê 永安上社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and palm sedan chairs of the gods are taken on a tour of inspection of the village boundaries. On 1/12 the village celebrates a general Yuanxiao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and lanterns are taken on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and divination blocks are cast to determine the date of a procession of the god through the Lantian eighteen village alliance. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. 8/15: The birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and the Houtu furen 后土夫人 of both the Yongan shangshê 永安上社 and the Yongan zhongshê 中社. Opera is peformed, and the two shê together celebrated the autumn rites 做秋. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Lieqiao daren 烈窍大人. Opera is performed and a single Daoist master is invited to conduct rituals. 
V198 Houhu 后湖 1. Village settlement Houhu village was originally called Houwuzi 后吴仔. Houhu is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The current population is around 346 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Houhujing Yongfu dongshê 后湖境永福东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yunaxiao rituals On 1/14 a single Fushou 福首 invites the incense burner of the Yongfu dongshê 永福东社 to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, while the gods go procession around the entire village. Birthdays celebrations of the gods 8/19: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V199 Guanpu 官埔 1. Village settlement Guanpu is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. The population of Guanpu village is approximately 1500 people. The village is divided into three parts, the Huang 黄, the Donghu Chenshê 东湖陈 and the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingangong 兴安宫 contains the altar of the Anning dongshe 安宁东社 which belongs to the Huang 黄. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Wangfu Wangjiangjun 王府王将军 and Hongmian Bai daren 红面白大人. 2) Taipingfu 太平府 contains the altar of the Anning dongshê 安宁东社 which belongs to the Donghu Chen 东湖陈氏. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. 3) Anning dongshê 安宁东社 belongs to the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Qingyun shuyuan 卿云书院 belongs to the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The secondary god is Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 5) Wuhuci 五湖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the Huang 黄 and the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏 take turns inviting the incense burners from their shê altars to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8 the Huang 黄 invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on a tour of inspection around the borders 绕境巡游 while the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏 invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 to do the same. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/15 the Donghu Chen 东湖陈 invite the incense burners from their shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 the Donghu Chen 东湖陈 invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on a tour of inspection procession around the village borders. The old Fushou 福首 hand the incense burners over to the new Fushou. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is peformed, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 8/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Kuokou 阔口 Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 10/19–20: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance are performed. Marionettes perform the Mulian 目连 plays. A single Daoist master from Danjing 丹井 village is invited to recite scriptures. This is organized by the Donghu Chen 东湖陈. 
V200 Xiazheng 下郑 1. Village settlement Xiazheng village is also known as Xiacheng 霞城. Xiazheng is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. The current population is approximately 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Xin 辛. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Guo 郭 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Xiachengjing Anning zhongshê 霞城境安宁中社 was repaired in Jiaqing 3 (1798). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Guole shenghou 果乐圣侯, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈 圣侯 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Jingtangong 经坛宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师. 3) Juxingyuan 聚星院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Other gods worshipped are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣 帝君. 4) Longdetang 隆德堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 237 initiates. 6) Yuhuci 玉壶祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 308 initiates. 7) Kangjiting Buddhist pagoda 康济亭 was rebuilt in the early Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5–9 each surname groups takes turns to invite the incense burners to their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10 the entire village hold a general Yuanxiao and a lantern procession, and invites Daoist ritual masters to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/19 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 goes on a procession through Xiazheng 下郑, Shangxin 上辛, and Guanpu 官埔 villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 7/16: The feast day of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10/15: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters or Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V201 Shangxin 上辛 1. Village settlement Shangxin is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. There are approximately 550 people living in Shangxin village. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, namely the Xin 辛. 3. Village temples 1) Qinyuanjing Anning xishê 锦园境安宁西社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Xinxiaci 行夏祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 100 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/6 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 holds a tour of inspection procession around the boundaries of the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. 
V202 Zhengjing 郑井 1. Village settlement Zhengjing is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Zhengjing village. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Danjingjing Shuijingggong 丹井境水晶宫 contains the altar of the Fude dongshê 福德东社. The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong zhengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Miyunci 密云祠 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lixing daren 李大人 and Xiling (Wanlinggong) Kong daren 西岭 (万灵宫)孔大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to holds tour of inspection procession around the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of the Lantian Yongangong Xuantian shangdi 蓝田永安宫玄天上帝. The gods are invited to watch the opera performances. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Marionette plays are performed. 8/10: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V203 Xiaketang 下可塘 1. Village settlement Xiaketang is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. Xiaketang has a population of approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The Xu 许 are the main surname group. Each year in rotation they select four Fushou 福首 to direct ritual activities. 3. Village temples 1) Wanhegong 万和宫 contains the Anmin zushê 安民祖社 and was built in the Qing dynasty. The main gods are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kang yuanshuai 康公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Huoshen yuanshuai 火神元帅. 2) Wanshoutan 万寿坛 is dedicated to Huang Erdashen 黄二大神. The secondary gods are Li daye 六大爷 and Qi daye 七大爷. On 9/11–12 rites are performed for these gods. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Shenlingmiao 神灵庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Daye 大爷. 5) Dexiantang 德贤堂 is dedicated to Milefo 弥勒佛. 6) Xianguci 仙姑祠 is dedicated to Lin xiangu 林仙姑. Secondary gods are Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 7) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 193 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Fushou 福首 carry the shê altar incense burners and accompany Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 on a tour of inspection of the entire village. On 1/14 in the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/15 the gods and the incense burners are returned to the temple, and three Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/1: The birthday of Lin xiangu 林仙姑. Opera is performed. 9/12: The birthday of Huang er dashen 黄二大神. Opera is performed. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 10/15: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance are performed, and the village participates in the procession of the gods of Wufeng 五峰. 
V204 Shangketang 上可塘 1. Village settlement Shangketang Xiaketang is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The current population of Shangketang is over 900 people. 2. Surname groups The Liu 刘 are the dominant surname group. There are also Xu 徐, Zheng 郑, Fang 方, Xiao 肖, Zeng 曾, and Ou 欧 households in the village. The village is divided into two parts, the Liucuo 刘厝 and the Zacuo 杂厝 (mixed surname settlement). Each year each part selects two Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 contains the altar of the Anmin dongshê 安民东社 which belongs to Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Tiayi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Yonghegong 永和宫 contains the altar of the Anmin xishê 安民西社 which belongs to the Zacuo 杂厝 (mixed surname settlement). The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Tiayi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Yuetangci 月塘祠 belongs to Liucuo 刘厝, and the main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一先生. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4) Guanyintang 观音堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–8 the Zacuo (mixed surnames) 杂厝 carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 in palm sedan chairs 棕轿 on a tour of inspection around their own territory. Lanterns go on procession and five Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao rituals 做醮. On 1/8–9 the Liucuo 刘厝 carry Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 in palm sedan chairs on a tour of inspection around their own territory. Lanterns go on procession and five Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Liucuo 刘厝. Opera is performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Zacuo 杂厝. Opera is performed. 
V205 Dingxi 顶溪 1. Village settlement Dingxi was originally known as Chenxi 陈溪, and is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村 The current population of Dingxi is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 make up 80% of the village population. There are also Wei 魏 and Xu 徐 households. Each year a single Fushou 福首 is selected in rotation according to age. 3. Village temples Yongangong 永安宫 contains the altar of the Yonganshê 永安社. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshi 都天 元帅 and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–12 Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 are carried on a tour of inspection around the village. Lanterns go on procession and five Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each time the Xuantian shangdi of Lantian 蓝田 goes on procession, the god is received in the village temple. Opera is performed. 9/9: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V206 Laizhai 濑宅 1. Village settlement Laizhai was originally known as Luozhai 罗宅, and is part of the Laizhai Administrative Village 濑宅行政村. The population of Laizhai village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are two main surname groups, the Xu 许 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yucai shushê 育才书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jin zhongjun 金中军. 2) Xingjingong 兴进宫 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods are Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅 and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 3) Xingyundong 行云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. 4) Julinting 竹林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 101 initiates. 6) Xinyitang 心一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 200 initiates. 7) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 186 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–18, the shê altar incense burners and Jin zhongjun 金中军 are taken on a tour of inspection of the entire village. On 1/20 in the evening, there is a procession of linked lanterns. Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/1: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/10: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and the autumn rites are held 做秋. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. On all these occasions, opera is performed and rituals are conducted by Daoist masters or Three in One scripture masters. 
V207 Caomang 草莽 1. Village settlement Caomang is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The population of Caomang village is approximately 2600 people. The village is divided into four parts, each with its own shê temple: these are the Anfu 安福, Ande 安德, Xinxing 新兴, and Dinglin 顶林 neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The main two surname groups are the Liang 梁 and the Lin 林. There are also Chen 陈, Xiao 肖 and Cai 蔡 households. 3. Village temples 1) Wenminggong 文明宫 is the main temple of the entire village. The main god is Wu daren 乌大人. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一先生, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 2) Anfu shushê 安福书社 belongs to Xialin 下林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Andeshê 安德社 belongs to the Liang 梁. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xinxingshê 新兴社 belongs to the Chen 陈, the Xiao 肖 and the Cai 蔡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Anding shushê 安定书社 belongs to Dinglin 顶林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 Anding shushê 安定书社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/6 Anfu shushê 安福 书社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/7 Andeshê 安德社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/8 Xinxingshê 新兴社 takes its gods on a tour of inspection procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. 6/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Wu daren 乌大人. Opera is performed. 10/26: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance are performed. 
V208 Sutang 苏塘 1. Village settlement Sutang is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The population of Sutang village is approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into three neighborhoods, Guocuo 郭厝, Xucuo 许厝, and Fangcuo 方厝. Each year three Fushou are selected, one by each neighborhood, by age. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭, the Xu 许, and the Fang 方 3. Village temples 1) Baihugong 白湖宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jin daren 金大人, Jiuniangma 九娘妈, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Baihu dongshê 白湖东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Jichengtang 集成堂 is a Three in One temple with over forty initiates. The temple preserves a Guangxu 4 (1878) stele. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchan dijun 文昌帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Jinyu chilin 金玉 齿临, Tianshen diqi 天神地祗. 4) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the incense burners of the shê temple are invited on a tour of inspection around the entire village. At night there is a procession of linked lanterns. Opera is performed. On 1/11 Tianshang shengmu 天上妈祖, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wu daren 乌大人, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited out of the temple to receive worship and to have gifts of cash tied around their necks 挂颈. Daoist ritual masters arer invited to hold a spring jiao ritual 春醮. On 1/12 the old Fushou 福首 hand over the incense burners to the new Fushou. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed and three Three in One scripture masters conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. 8/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Marionette plays are performed. 8/25: Rites are held to welcome the autumn season 做秋, and opera is performed. 9/19: The feastday of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 
V209 Xinxu 新徐 1. Village settlement Xinxu is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The population of Xinxu village is just over 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 are the dominant surname group. There are also some Liu 刘 and Lin 林 households. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxujing Mingfeng wangfu 新徐境明凤王府: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅. Secondary gods are Kong daren 孔大人, Zhu yuanshuai 朱元帅 and Chen xiannü 陈仙女. 2) Anning xinshê 安宁新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Qingyuandong 清源洞 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the incense burners of the shêaltar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held, and opera is performed 
V210 Jiuxu 旧徐 1. Village settlement Jiuxu is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The current population of Jiuxu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Jiuxujing Guanhugong 旧徐境官湖宫 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. 2) Donglaiting 东来亭 was repaired in Jiaqing 4 (1799). The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. In the 9th lunar month on the birthday of the goddess marionette plays are performed. 3) Anning zushê 安宁祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the incense burners of the shêaltar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 9/7: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Opera is performed. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 
V211 Mubing 墓柄 1. Village settlement Mubing village is also known as Wenbing 文柄. Mubing is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村. The current population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zhang 张 and the Wu 吴. Each year the Zhang select two Fushou by rotation based on age while the Wu 吴 select one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Wenfenggong 文峰宫 contains the altar of Anningshê 安宁社: The main gods are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. 2) Wenxiatang 文夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天元帅, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–14 the incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evenings there are processions of linked lanterns. All the gods of the shê, led by Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 are carried out in eight small palm sedan chairs for a tour of inspection of the entire village. On 2/1 the ritual of beginning good fortune toufu 头福 is held, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed. 8/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Marionette plays are performed. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Opera is performed for two or three days, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. 
V212 Shidou 石兜 1. Village settlement Shidou is part of the Sutang Administrative Village 苏塘行政村.The current population of Shidou village is 154 people. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Dai 戴. 3. Village temples Anshigong 安石社 is within the Chongxinggong 重兴宫. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê-altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed. 
A051 六甲 Hushi sanshiliujia (Hushi thirty-six jia ritual alliance) 笏石三十 Hushi 笏石 was originally known as Qishi 跂石 and is located on the southern edge of the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing, this entire area was considered out of bounds 界外, and was forcibly evacuated. This area originally belonged to the Hushipu 笏石铺 (police/defense unit) of Hepuli 合浦里. In the Ming the village of Qishi 跂石村 was already settled here, and in the Qing the following villages separated out: Dagui 大龟, Linbing 林炳, Houjing 后井, Houhuang 后黄, Chencuo 陈厝, Wucuo 吴厝. From the end of the coastal evacuations onwards, Hushi developed into the central town of the “region beyond the borders”, and it currently is the site of the Xiuyu Bay Regional Government 秀屿区政府, but most of the residents live in the streets and lanes of Hushi township. Hushi originally was an agricultural market town with a fairly regular settlement pattern. Currently Hushi is managed by three Administrative Villages: Daqiu 大丘, Dingshe 顶社 and Beipu 北埔行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to the traditional settlements into thirty-six jia ritual association 三十六甲. The Jurengong 聚仁宫 temple, located in Chencuo 陈厝 village, is the main overall temple of the thirty-six village ritual alliance and dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Formerly, the god would go on procession around the entire alliance on irregular occasions. The temple is known as the Pugong 铺宫 (main temple of the Pu police/defense unit). Currently the thirty-six village alliance of Hushi has divided up into three different ritual alliances, each based in a different main temple. These temples are the Jurengong 聚仁宫 of Chencuo 陈厝, the Shengrengong 圣仁宫of Dingcuo 顶厝, and the Fengshangong 凤山宫of Beipu 北埔. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the thirty-six village alliance of Huxhi was part of the black banner alliance. 
V213 Chencuo 陈厝 1. Village settlement Chencuo is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. The current population of Chencuo village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑, the Su 苏, and the Lin 林. Each year each group selects by rotation one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples Jurengong 聚仁宫 was built in Kangxi 54 (1715) and demolished in 1958. In 1980 it was rebuilt, and is now the main overall Pugong 铺宫 temple of the thirty-six village alliance of Hushi. Currently, representatives from each of the thirty-six villages still sit on the temple managementHushi thirty-six jia ritual alliance committee. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wang lingguan 王灵官, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Hutiangong 壶天宫 has already been torn down, but the gods are kept in the home of the Fushou 福首. The main gods are Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 are invited to go on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and the celebration is organized by the management committee of the Jurengong 聚仁宫. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wanglingguan 王灵宫. Opera is performed, and the celebration is organized by the management committee of the Jurengong 聚仁宫. 
V214 Wucuo 吴厝 1. Village settlement Wucuo is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. The current population of Wucuo village is approximately 1360 people. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Wu 吴. Each year by rotation according to age four Fushou 福首 are selected. 3. Village temples 1) Yanfushê 延福社 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗. 2) Aolonggong 鳌龙宫 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯 and Fenghuo ertong 风火二童. 3) Zishan shuyuan 紫山书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 with Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 as a secondary god. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 the incense burners of the temple, along with Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Zhanghong shengjun 张公圣君, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 go on a tour of inspection of the entire village. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Formerly, on 1/23 Sima shengwang 司马圣王 would go on procession not only through Wucuo village on this day, but also to Daqiu 大丘, Linbing 林柄, Houhuang 后黄, Houjing 后井, Tucheng 土埕 and Fulushan 福禄山 villages. This tradition has not been revived. Birthday celebrations: 5/13: The celebration for Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed. 7/21: The celebration for Zhanggong shengwang 张公圣君. Opera is performed. 8/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V215 Houhuang 后黄 1. Village settlement Houhuang is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. There are over 1000 people living in Houhuang village. The village is divided into four neighborhoods, known as Qiancuo 前厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Cuohou 厝后 and Xiating 下厅. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Weng 翁, the Song 宋, the Huang 黄, and the Lin 林. The Weng are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yujinggong 玉晶宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Yikeng dongshê 义坑东社 was repaired in 1998. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Wanshoutang 万寿坛 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Cifuan 慈福庵 was originally a Buddhist nunnery. Now it is a shrine to the memory of Yagu 得道亚姑, a nun who attained nirvana there. The main gods worshipped are Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Zhenfengci 镇峰祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6–7 Qiancuo 前厝 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8, Cuohou 厝后 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/9, Xiacuo 下厝 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10, Xiating 下厅 and Qiancuo 前厝 take the incense burners of the shê-altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/20–21 the whole village celebrates a general Yuanxiao, and invites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 together with the incense burners of the temple to go on a tour of inspection procession around the boundaries of the village. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The initial offering 首供 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. 5/14: The celebration of Buddhist nun Yagu is held 亚姑 and opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held and opera is performed. 9/9: The celebration of Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 is held and opera is performed. 12/8: The closing offering 尾供 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 
V216 Houjing 后井 1. Village settlement Houjing village is part of the Dingshê Administrative Village 顶社行政村. The current population is over 900 people. The village is divided into two parts, the Tangyuan shangshê 塘源上社 and the Tangyuan dongshê 塘源东社. Each year each shê selects four Fushou 福首 each. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Xu 许, the Liu 刘 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Tangyuan shangshê 塘源上社 includes the Baiyudong 白玉洞. The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Fangyang dashi 芳阳大使, Chen jinggu 陈靖姑, Du yuanshuai 度元帅, and Wei tianwang 韦天王. 2) Tangyuan dongshê 塘源东社 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, with Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 as secondary gods. 3) Qingjingtang 清镜堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the members of the Dongshê 东社 take the incense burners of the temple to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then go on a procession around their territory. On 1/23–24, the members of the Shangshê 上社 first go to the Dongshê to worship 东社, and then take the incense burners of that temple (and their own) to each household in its territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then goes on a procession around its own boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebraiton of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Qingjingtang 清镜堂. Opera is performed. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed. 9/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. Opera is performed. 
V217 Daqiu 大丘 1. Village settlement Daqiu village was originally called Dagui 大龟. Daqiu is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. Currently the population is over 2600 people, living in over 480 households. The village is divided into four shê, namely the Fulin taishê 福霖泰社, the Dongshê 东社, the Shangshê 上社, and the Xinshê 新社. Each year each shê selects by rotation two Fushou 福首. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname group in the village, the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Baihugong 白湖宫 (also known as the Taishifu 太师府) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯. 2) Fulinshê 福霖社 (and the various shê altars inside the temple, namely the Fulin taishê 福霖太社, the Dongshê 东社 and the Shangshê 上社) all are dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Fulin xinshê 福霖新社 is in Houdaqiu 后大丘. The temple is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Fozu 佛祖. 4) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huang Er dajiang 黄二 大使, Heiyun daren 黑云大人, and Cai Asan 蔡阿三. 5) Wanfutan 万福坛 was originally a tomb for unknown soldiers during the Qing coastal evacuaton. Currently there is a stele commemorating the reconstruction of the temple and the tomb. The main god is Dizang renshi 地藏仁师. Secondary gods are Huanger dashen 黄二大神, Wang yushi 汪御史, Lin zhongjun 林中军, Dage 大哥, Erge 二哥, Jiu shugong 九叔公 and Qiye 七爷. 6) Hansantang 函三堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 7) Qingshuian Buddhist nunnery 清水庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:226). 8) Jushantang Buddhist hall 聚善堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:226). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Fulin taishê 福霖泰社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each member household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Fulin dongshê 福霖东社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Fulin xinshê 福霖新社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 Fulin shangshê 福霖上社 takes the incense burners of the temple to its member households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 a general Yuanxiao festival is held and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Baima shenghou 白马圣侯 of Baihugong 白湖宫 go on a procession throughout Daqiu village and then on to Fulushan 福禄山 village. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The beginning good fortune 头福 festival. Opera is performed. 4/9: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. 8/15: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 9/12: The celebration for Huang er daren 黄二大人. Opera is performed. 10/12: The celebration for Heiyun daren 黑云大人. Opera is performed. 
V218 Fulushan 福禄山 1. Village settlement Fulushan village is part of the Daqiu Administrative Village region 大丘行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into two sections, the Dingfang 顶房 and the Xiafang 下房. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Mingdeci 明德祠 includes the Wanxintang 万兴堂 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Huanger daren 黄二大人. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the Xiafang 下房 area of the village participates in the xingdao 行道 (practising the Dao) procession of Fulin taishê 福霖太社 from the neighbouring village of Daqiu 大丘. On 1/12 the Dingfang 顶房 area of the village participates in the xingdao 行道 (practising the Dao) procession of Fulin dongshê 福霖东社 from the neighbour   ing village of Daqiu 大丘. On 1/15 the entire village 全村 participates in the procession of the Daqiu village Baihugong 大丘白湖宫. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. 8/8: Daoist masters are invited to perform a Bao’anjiao 保安醮. Opera is performed. 10/29: The rites of Universal Deliverance of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 are performed. 
V219 Linbing 林柄 1. Village settlement Linbing belongs to Daqiu Administrative Village 大丘行政村. The current population of Linbing village is over 260 people. 2. Surname groups There are three main surname groups in the village, the Cai 蔡, Peng 彭, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Fuchenggong 福诚宫 is dedicated to Dawang zungong 大王尊公. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengjun 司马圣王, Wu zhongjun 吴中军, Li Boye 李伯爷, Huang Boye 黄伯爷, Taishan Liu dage 泰山刘大哥, Shi siye 石四爷, Chen Boye 陈伯爷, Zhang Boye 张伯爷 and Li zhongjun 李中军. 2) Xinxingshê 新兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Qingruitang Buddhist hall 清瑞堂 was built in Guangxu 6 (1880). (PTZJZ, 1992:207) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 each household goes to the village temple to worship. On 1/20 in the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/15: The autumn rites are held 做秋 and marionette plays are performed. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. 
V220 Dingshê 顶社 1. Village settlement Dingshê is part of the Dingshê Administrative Village 顶社行政村. The current population is over 5000 people. The village is divided into various neighborhoods including Dingshê 顶社, Xiashê 下社, Tawei 塔尾, Louxia 楼下, Xiajie 下街 etc., 2. Surname groups The Zhan 占 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. In addition, there are the Zheng 郑, the Zhou 周 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Shengrengong 圣仁宫 is also known as Hushigong 笏石宫 or DingShêgong 顶社宫. This temple divided off from Chencuo Jurengong 陈厝聚仁宫 in the Qing dynasty. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Hushan dongshê 笏山东社 is in Tawei 塔尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Hushan xishê 笏山西社 is in Xiashê 下社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4) Mingshanci 明山祠 is in Dingshê 顶社. There are currently fifteen initiates 门人. The main god worshipped is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Mile zunfo 弥勒尊佛, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Huang daxiong 黄大兄. 5) Qingyundong 清云洞 is in Dingshê 顶社 and is dedicated to Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. The secondary gods are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang erdaren 黄二大人, Baihua xiannü 白花仙女, Baihua xiaojie 白花小姐, Zhang jiangjun 张将军, Huang dashen 黄大神, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 6) Zhiyuanting 志元亭 is in Xiashê 下社. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 7) Wangyuanmiao 万元庙 is in Xiajie 下街. The main god is Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. Secondary gods are Yang daren 杨大人, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 8) Huiyundong 惠云洞 is in Xiajie 下街. The main god is Langong yuanshuai 蓝公元帅. Secondary gods are Zhou jiangjun 周将军 and Chen jiangjun 陈将军. 9) Shanxing Buddhist temple 善兴寺. (PTZJZ, 1992:227) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Hushan dongshê 笏山东社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/13 Hushan xishê 笏山西社 takes the incense burners of the temple to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/24 the gods of Shengrengong 圣仁宫 are invited to go on a tour of inspection procession through Dingshê 顶社, Xiashê 下社, Tawei 塔尾, Louxia 楼下, Xiajie 下街, Houjing 后井, Bajin 坝津, Beipu 北埔 and other villages. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Zhiyuanting 志元亭. Marionette plays are performed. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Shengrengong 圣仁宫. Opera is performed. 6/12: The celebration of Huang erdaren 黄二大人 is organized by the Qingyundong 清云洞. Marionette plays are performed. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Zhiyuanting 志元亭. Marionette plays are performed. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 is organized by the Qingyundong 清云洞. Opera is performed. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Mingshanci 明山祠. Opera is performed. 9/15: The celebration of Xiling Kong daren 西岭孔大人 is organized by Wanyuanmiao 万元庙. Opera is performed. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Zhiyuanting 志元亭. Marionette plays are performed. 10/25: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Mulian 目连戏 marionette plays are performed. This event is organized by the Mingshanci 明山祠. 
V221 Beipu 北埔 1. Village settlement Beipu is part of the Beipu Administrative Village 北埔行政村. The village of Beipu currently has over 3000 people. The village is divided into several neighborhoods that are called the qijiali 七甲里. The neighborhoods are Tucheng 土埕, Beipu 北埔, Nanpu 南埔, Yaocuo 瑶厝, Tiancuo 田厝, Yuanwei 园尾, Houcaiyuan 后菜园, Xitianwei 西天尾, and Xiaqiaotou 下桥头. 2. Surname groups There are many surnames represented in Beipu. The Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Shi 施 are the major surname groups. There are also the Weng 翁, the Chao 赵, the Xie 谢, the Wu 吴, the Zheng 郑, the Guo 郭, and the Liang 梁. 3. Village temples 1) Fengshangong 凤山宫 is in Tucheng 土埕 and is the main overall temple of the seven jia neighborhoods 七甲总宫. It is run by a unified temple management committee. The main gods is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Taishan dage 泰山 大哥, Yang daren 杨大人 and Lin daren 林大人. 2) Mingjingtang 明镜堂 includes the Wenming shushê 文明书社 and is the founding shê altar of the seven neighborhood alliance 七甲祖社. It too is run by a unified temple committee. The temple is in Beipu 北埔. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨, and Chensheng hufa 陈胜护法. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 220 initiates. 3) Fengshanfu 凤山府 is in Houcaiyuan 后菜园 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshua 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wang daren 王大人, Jin daren 金大人, Lei daren 雷大人, and Ma daren 马大人. 4) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞 is in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 each household goes to the Wenming shushê 文明书社 to worship. In the evening there is a procession of linked lanterns. On 1/22 Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried on a tour of inspection procession around the entire region. This event is organized by the temple management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Fengshangong 凤山宫 which sponsors marionette plays. Opera is sponsored by Xitianwei 西天尾, Yaocuo 瑶厝 and Xiaqiaotou 下桥 头 neighborhoods seperately. Each time that a year has an intercalary second lunar month the god goes on a procession through the entire region. 2/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsor marionette plays. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is organized by the Fengshangong凤山宫. Opera is performed. 6/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsor marionette plays. 8/22: The celebration for Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. Opera performances are organized seperately by Tucheng 土埕, Tiancuo 田厝 and Yuanwei 园尾 neighborhoods. Each year in which there is an eighth intercalary lunar month, the god goes on a procession through the entire region. 9/13: The celebration for Yang daren 杨大人 and Lin daren 林大人 is organized by Fengshangong 凤山宫, which sponsor marionette plays. 9/19: The celebration for Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsors opera. 10/12: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 下元普度 are organized by the Mingjingtang 明镜堂, which sponsor marionette plays. 11/25: The celebration for Taishan dage 泰山大哥 is organized by the Ruiyundong 瑞云洞, which sponsors operatic performances. 
A052 Hushu xiashisixiang (Hushi lower fourteen village ritual alliance) 笏石下十四乡 The Hushi lower fourteen village ritual alliance is located on the southern side of the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing this area was made out of bounds 界外, and these villages were forcibly evacuated. This area originally was part of the Babianpu (police/defense unit) 坝边铺 and the Dongfeng qingguangpu 东峰青光铺 of the Guoqingli sub-canton 国清里. In the Ming, the village of Dongjin 东津村 was already in the area, and in the mid Qing, the fourteen villages took shape, including Babian 坝边, Cangdian 苍店, Lincuozi 林厝仔, Huanglin 黄林, and Xizhuo 西卓. In the late Qing, the following villages separated off: Tianyang 田洋, Xiadian 下店, Yuntang 云塘, Dongzhuo 东卓, Kengwei 坑尾, Jiucheng 旧埕 and Shanding 山顶. The area currently has over 6000 people, all of whom are managed by the Bajin Administrative Village 坝津行政村. The Chaoyunge 潮云阁 temple of Cangdian village 苍店 is the main temple of the lower fourteen village alliance. It is known as a Pugong 铺宫, or the temple of the police/defense unit which administered all these villages in the Qing. The main gods are Yuan (Xuan)tian shangdi 元天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Confucius 孔子. Each year there is an intercalary lunar sixth month, the Guanyin dashi of Chaoyunge 潮云 阁 temple is carried on a procession to all the villages of the ritual alliance. This event is organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of each of the fourteen villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the fourteen villages of the Hushi lower alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V222 Shangbabian 上坝边 1. Village settlement The population of Shangbabian village is approximately 500 people. Hushi lower fourteen village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangshangong 象山宫 contains the altar of Yongan xishê 永安西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 lanterns are carried in a procession around the village territory. On 1/13 all the gods of Xiangshangong 象山宫 and Yongan xishê 永安西社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V223 Xiababian 下坝边 1. Village settlement The population of Xiababian village is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangshangong 象山宫, Yongan dongshê 永安 东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Damafu 大妈府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Weibinting 渭滨亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, lanterns are carried in a procession around its territory. On 1/12, all the gods of Xiangshangong 象山宫 and Yongan dongshê 永安东社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On all these occasions, the entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed. 5/15: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/18: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 12/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V224 Tianyang 田洋 1. Village settlement The village of Tianyang has a population of over 300 people. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname group in the village, the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Yujingshê 玉井社 contains the Baiyundong 白云洞. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and then a procession is held around the village boundaries. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao 醮 ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is marked with five days of opera. 
V225 Cangdian 苍店 1. Village settlement The population of Cangdian village is approximately 650 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 许. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Chaoyunge 潮云阁, Guanyinting 观音亭, Buyunge 步云阁: the main temple (Pugong 铺宫) for the lower fourteen village alliance. The main gods are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kongzi 孔子. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 迦蓝. Every year early in the 6th lunar month, Guanyin dashi of Chaoyunge goes on procession around the lower fourteen village alliance. 2) Xingxiangong 兴贤宫, Fuanshê 福安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugu shenjun 五谷神君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Mingshan dishi 名山帝师, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Wei sheren 魏舍人, Jin sheren 金舍人, and Jingdu erjiang 京都二将. 3) Songyunmiao 松云庙: The main gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Taishan Daxiong 泰山大兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 all the gods of Xingxiangong 兴贤宫 and Fuanshê 福安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/15: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Chaoyunge 潮云阁, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette plays are performed. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenjun 五谷神君. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. This ritual is organized by Chaoyunge 潮云阁, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 6/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyindashi 观音大士 is organized by Chaoyunge 潮云阁, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 11/8: The birthday celebration of Mingshan dishi 名山帝师. 11/19: The birthday celebration of Wu jiangjun 吴将军. On all the above occasions, unless otherwise specificed, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together (with the exception of certain rites organized by the Chaoyunge), and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V226 Xiadian 下店 1. Village settlement The population of Xiadian village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Guo 郭. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Qishangong 棋山宫, Yonganshê 永安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Fengyangci 凤阳祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 230 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–18 all the gods of Qishangong 棋山宫 and Yonganshê 永安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V227 Lincuo 林厝 1. Village settlement The population of Lincuo village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, and Guo 郭. 3. Village temples 1) Longshangong 龙山宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Yongan minshê 永安民社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Qionglinci 琼林祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 190 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 all the gods of Longshangong 龙山宫 and Yongan minshê 永安民社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these two occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The rites of Universal Deliverance of the day of Lower Prime 下元 普度 are performed by Three in One Scripture Masters. This is organized by Qionglinci 琼林祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V228 Dongjin 东津 1. Village settlement The population of Dongjin is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Chengshangong 城山宫, Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天 上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗 大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 all the gods of Chengshangong 城山宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. In the 9th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V229 Shanding 山顶 1. Village settlement The population of Shanding is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Meishan gong 美山宫, Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社 branched out from the Chengshanshê 城山社 of Dongjin 东津 due to disputes over the processions of the gods. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 all the gods of Meishangong 美山宫 and Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V230 Kengwei 坑尾 1. Village settlement The population of Kengwei is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Lin 林, Xu 许, and Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Meishangong 美山宫, Xingningshê 兴宁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 all the gods of Meishangong 美山宫 and Xingningshê 兴宁社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 9/10: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V231 Dongzhuo 东卓 1. Village settlement The population of Dongzhuo is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xie 谢. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Huang 黄, Cai 蔡, and Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qishangong 棋山宫, Yonganshê 永安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zucheng shengwang 祖城 圣王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 all the gods of Qishangong 棋山宫 and Yonganshê 永安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 lanterns are carried in a procession around the village boundaries. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/19: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On these occasions, opera are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V232 Xizhuo 西卓 1. Village settlement The population of Xizhuo is approximately 400. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Xizhuo gong 西卓宫, Anning zhongxing shê 安宁 仲兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Fengshanci 凤山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6–7, all the gods of Xizhuogong 西卓宫 and Anning zhongxingshê 安宁仲兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters or Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V233 Huanglin 黄林 1. Village settlement The population of Huanglin village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhou 周, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Huanglingong 篁林宫, Anning zhongxingshê 安宁 中兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 all the gods of Huanglingong 篁林宫 and Anning zhongxingshê 安宁中兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V234 Yuntang 云塘 1. Village settlement The population of Yuntang village is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Taiping shushê 太平书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, all the gods of Taiping shushê 太平书社 are taken in a procession to “practice the Dao” 行道 in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A053 Hushi shangshibaxiang (Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance) 笏石上十四乡 The Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance is located on the southern edge of the Guqing Reservoir 国清塘. In the early Qing this area was made out of bounds 界外, and these villages were forcibly evacuated. The region was divided up into the Xishanpu 西山铺, the Chicenpu 赤岑铺 and the Sanshepu 三社铺 (police/defense units) of the Gouqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming there were two villages in this area, namely Chicen 赤岑 and Yangshan 杨山. In the Qing, the following villages separated off: Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜, Bitou 泌头, Houshê 后社, Xushê 徐厝, Dongxingtou 东硎头 (Dengaotou 登鳌头), Xijin 西津, Dongcai 东蔡, and Xicai 西蔡. At the end of the Qing, the following villages were settled: Songting 松亭, Linkeng 林坑, Qianlin 前林, Yuanqian 院前, Qianzheng 前郑, Dapu 大埔, Lingxia 岭下, and Shanglin 上林. The current population of this area is over 10,000 people, who are managed through five Administrative Villages: Xixu 西徐, Bajin 坝津, Lingmei 岭美, Yanglin 杨林, and Liucuo 刘厝. Chengshangong 城山宫 temple, located in Xucuo village 徐厝, and Wanyunge 万云阁 temple of Yuanqian village 院前村, are the two main temples for the upper fourteen village alliance. Each year with an intercalary lunar month, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Chengshangong and Chen dage 陈大哥 of Wanyunge are carried in a procession around the upper fourteen village alliance (now expanded to Hushi upper fourteen village ritual alliance eighteen villages). In addition, the upper fourteen village alliance originally included the villages of Tiancen 田岑 and Xiyuan erxiang 西园二乡, both of which no longer exist. Moreover, the villages of Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜 and Bitou 泌头, which belonged to the alliance, now have established their own relatively independent ritual system. Villages which do not belong to the twenty-eight village alliance but still participate in the ritual activities of the upper fourteen village alliance include Xiawei 下尾, Dinggu 定固 (Chenmu 陈墓), and Houzhu 后洙. In the feuding banner alliance of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Hushi lower fourteen village alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V235 Xucuo 徐厝 1. Village settlement Xucuo is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. Xucuo village ncludes the former Tiancen village 田岑村. The population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 徐 (divided into the front branch and back branch). 3. Village temples 1) Chengshangong 城山宫 contains both the Yongju xishê 永居西社 and the Tiancenshê 田岑社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yushan shuyuan 玉山书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Wanshunting 万顺亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the front branch of the Xu 徐 surname group invites all the gods of Chengshangong 城山宫 and Yongju zhongshê 永居中社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the Xu front branch, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/19, the back branch of the Xu surname group invites all the gods of the Chengshangong temple 城山宫 and the Tiancenshê 田岑社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the Xu back branch, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/15: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/14: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/16: Pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 普度. 12/24: Send off the gods 送神. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V236 Songting 松亭 1. Village settlement Songting is also known as Shangting 上亭. Songting is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行政村. The population is approximately 360 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Songtinjing Yongju zhongshê 松亭境永居中社 branched off from the Yongju xishê 永居西社 of Xucuo 徐厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 all the gods of Yongju zhongshê 永居中社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V237 Houshê 后社 1. Village settlement Houshê is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. The population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Beiji dian 北极殿 contains the altar of the Yongjuzhong shushe 永居中书社: This is one of the three shê of Dongbian 东 边. Built during the mid-Ming Dynasty, it was renovated in Tongzhi 1 (1862). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Chensan furen 陈三夫人, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 and Chensan furen 陈三夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Chensan furen 陈三夫人. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 4./26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/24: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V238 Linkeng 林坑 1. Village settlement Linkeng is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. The population is approximately 350 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhou 周. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Jinaogong 金鳌宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Baiqingci 白清祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Hua Tuo xiansheng 华陀先生. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V239 Dengaotou 登鳌头 1. Village settlement Dengaotou is also called Dongxingtou 东硎头 or Dengjiatou 登加头. Dengaotou is part of Xixu Administrative Village 西徐 行政村. The population is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Dengaogong 登鳌宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wutan zunsheng 五坛尊圣, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Shanfutang 善福堂: The main gods are Dizang renshi 地藏仁师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Zhenshanci 真山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Nanhaiting 南海亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 all the gods of Dengaogong 登鳌宫 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd or 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. In the 8th or 9th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V240 Yuanqian 院前 1. Village settlement Yuanqian is also called Yanqian 岩前. Yuanqian is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Weng 翁, Xu 徐, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Wanyunge 万云阁 is the main temple for the upper fourteen village alliance 上十四乡. The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Chenfu daxiong 陈府大兄. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Chenfu shengren 陈府 圣人, Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 2) Yingquan dongshê 瀛泉东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 all the gods of Yingquan dongshê 瀛泉东社 go on procession through the village. Opera is performed and Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Chenfu daxiong 陈府大兄. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 4/14: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 5/10: The birthday celebration of Chenfu shengren 陈府圣人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. On all these occasions, with the exception of the birthday for Zunzhu mingwang, which is organized by the village alone, with funding raised on a per capita basis, the celebrations for the gods are organized by Wanyun dian 万云殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals during all these celebrations. Qianzheng 前郑 1. Village settlement Qianzheng is part of the Bajin Administrative Village 坝津行政村. The population of Qianzheng village is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Hongyun dian 红云殿, Jinzi tang 金紫堂, Zhenzhuge 珍珠阁: These linked temples were built in Hongzhi 4 (1491). This is the main temple for the entire twenty-eight village alliance 二十八乡. The main god is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Laozu dafa tianshi 老祖大法天师, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Meifeng zushê 梅峰祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Meifeng ting 梅峰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 all the gods of Meifeng zushê 梅峰祖社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V242 Xijin 西津 1. Village settlement Xijin is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Xijin village is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Anninggong 安宁宫: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xixing wenshê 西兴文社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shunxingsi Buddhist temple 顺心寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:227) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 all the gods of Anninggong 安宁宫 and Xixing wenshê 西兴文社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V243 Yangshan 杨山 1. Village settlement Yangshan is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Yangshan village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cheng 程. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Zhu 朱, Lin 林, and Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Xinglonggong 兴隆宫, Antai shushê 安泰书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军and Huo jiangjun 火将军. 2) Xiangkoumiao 巷口庙: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Baiyutang 白玉堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/21–22 all the gods of Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 and Antai shushê 安泰书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by Xiangkoumiao 巷口庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/24: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V244 Chicen 赤岑 1. Village settlement Chicen is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Chicen village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Linfeng shushê 麟峰书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xialin zhushê 下林朱社, Julongge 聚龙阁: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Julanting 聚澜亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/ 9 all the gods of Linfeng shushê 麟峰书社, Xialin zhushê 下林朱社 and Julongge 聚龙阁 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V245 Xicai 西蔡 1. Village settlement Xicai is part of the Yanglin Administrative Village 杨林行政村. The population of Xicai is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, Wei 魏, and Lin 林. There are no main surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xingshangong 兴山宫, Anping shushê 安平书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Junzhentang 郡真堂: The main god is Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/23 all the gods of Xingshangong 兴山宫 and Anping shushê 安平书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/18: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 10/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V246 Lingxi 岭下 1. Village settlement Lingxia is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Lingxia village is approximately 1700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups is the Huang 黄. Other surnames include the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Hudong shushê 湖东书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Lingnan shuyuan 岭南书院: Also called Hulinggong 湖岭宫, the temple was built in Qianlong 34 (1769), and was renovated both in Tongzhi 12 (1873) and in 1947. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Baiyudong 白玉洞 is located in Wumashan 五马山. The temple was originally a tomb of the righteous, and unrequited (unknown soldier) 义塚. The main god is Dage 大哥. Secondary gods include Guniang 姑娘, Shanshen 山神, Liuye 六爷, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–11 all the gods of Hudong sheshê 湖东书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/19: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The village organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/11: The birthday celebration of Guniang 姑娘 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Dage 大哥 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The village organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/5: The birthday celebration of Liuye 六爷 is organized by the Baiyudong 白玉洞, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rituals. 
V247 Qianlin 前林 1. Village settlement Qianlin is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Qianlin village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. Other surname groups include the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Huling xishê 湖岭西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Mingxiatang 明夏堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on procession to every household within the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10./18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V248 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement Shanglin is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. The population of Shanglin village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Ruan 阮, Lin 林, and Fang 方. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yunchengong 云辰宫, Lianruilin shê 连瑞林社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Yishanci 沂山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 246 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Yunchengong 云辰宫 and Lianruilin shê 连瑞林社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to con- duct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V249 Dapu 大埔 1. Village settlement Dapu is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美 行政村. The population of Dapu is approximately 650 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Wu 吴, and Huang 黄. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing xishê 新兴西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Anminfu 安民府: the main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Zhushuiting 驻水亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 all the gods of Xinxing xishê 新兴西社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/19: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V250 Xiawei 下尾 1. Village settlement Xiawei is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Xiawei village is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. Minor surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Bifenggong 笔峰宫 was rebuilt in Guangxu 18 (1892). The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dasheng 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷. 2) Huilong shushê 会龙书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi. 杨公太师. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V251 Dinggu 定固 1. Village settlement Dinggu is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. The population of Dinggu is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林, originated from Ding zhuang 定庄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingzhengong 兴镇宫, Jinming shushê 进明书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Jingliye 经理爷 (Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯), Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Zhongqiuye 中秋爷 (Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣). 2) Shangshan temple 上善寺 was originally built in Kangxi 7 (1668) and was moved to the south of the Su mountain 苏山 in Kangxi 17 (1698). (PTZJZ, 1992:226) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The funding is raised through contributions from Toulu 头炉 (keepers of the incense burners) and Fushou 福首 (headsmen). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/17: The birthday celebration of Jingliye 经理爷. 7/24: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zhongqiuye 中秋爷. Marionette plays are performed. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V252 Houzhu 后洙 1. Village settlement Houzhu is also written as 后珠 or 后朱, after the Zhu surname. Houzhu is part of the Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行 政村. The population of Houzhu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Sushangong 苏山宫 contains the altar of Zhushanshê 珠山社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Andingfu 安定府: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Changzhouci 长洲祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Da ye 大爷 and Er ye 二爷. 4) Qingquanting 清泉亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 all the gods of Sushangong 苏山宫 and Zhushanshê 珠山社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A054 Xishan sancun (Xishan three village ritual alliance) 西山三村 The Xishan three village ritual alliance is located on the sides of the Guoqing reservoir 国清塘. This area was part of the Xishanpu 西山铺 (police/defense unit) of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the village of Hutuou 湖头村, and in the Qing the three villages of Xishan 西山, Shandou 山兜 and Bitou 泌头 separated off. Currently, these villages are managed by the Xixu Administrative Village 西徐行政村. The Xishangong 西山宫 temple and the Yongju shushê 永居书社, located in Xishan village 西山村, are the main temple and shê altar of the three village ritual alliance. First built in the early Qing, the temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chifeng Jiedushi 敕封节度使, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. Each year on lunar 1/7–9, the gods of the Xishangong and the Yongju shushê are invited on a procession to each village in the alliance. This event is organized by the temple committee, made up of representatives from each of the participating three villages of the ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three village alliance of Xishan was part of the black banner alliance. Xishan three village ritual alliance Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The population of Xishan village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xie 谢 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Xishangong 西山宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: This is the main temple for the villages of Bitou 泌头, Shandou 山兜, and Xishan 西山. It was built during the early Qing Dynasty. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chifeng jiedushi 敕封节度使, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 contains the altar of the Yongju shushê 永居书社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母. 3) Sanqingci 三清祠: The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 150 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong 西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Xishan 西山 village as well as the villages of Bitou 泌头 and Shandou 山兜. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Xishangong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/17 the Xie 谢 surname group invites all the gods of Sanqingci 三清祠 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 to go on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Xie 谢 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within the lineage. On 1/18 the Lin 林 surname group invites all the gods of Tianhougong 天后宫 and Yongju shushê 永居书社 to go on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within the lineage. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母, organized by the the village as a whole. 9/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized by the Xie 谢. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Lin 林. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis by the organizing group. 
V254 Bitou 泌头 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin ancestral hall 林氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Taipingshê 太平社 includes the Miaoyinting 妙音亭: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Qingminfu 青民府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Xingyuntang 兴云堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 450 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong 西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Bitou village as well as the villages of Xishan 西山 and Shandou 山兜. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Xishangong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14–15 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/17: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 8/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V255 Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Chenshangong 辰山宫 contains the altar of the Yongju dongshê 永居东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Chenshi xiangu 陈氏仙姑, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianyingmiao 显应庙: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Juyunge 聚云阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 all the gods of Chenshangong 辰山宫 and Yongju dongshê 永居东社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/7–9 all the gods of Xishangong 西山宫 and Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 go on procession within Shandou village as well as in the villages of Xishan 西山 and Bitou 泌头. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xishan gong 西山宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 11/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A055 Niushan qijing (Niushan sevenfold ritual alliance) 牛山七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Niushan is located along the feet of Hugong 壶公 Mountain on the far reaches of the irrigated southern plain of the Mulan irrigation system. This region was part of the Dongguo Huaizuo Yicuopu 东郭槐佐蚁厝铺 of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton and the Zhupupu 珠埔铺 of Hepuli 合浦里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Cuifeng 翠峰村 and Dongpuyu 东埔余, and in the early Qing the villages of Houdong 后董, Yicuo 蚁厝 and Chenshantou 陈山头 separated off. In the late Qing, the villages of Meilin 梅林 and Xiazhuang 下庄 separated off. Of these villages, Dongpuyu 东埔余, Houdong 后董 and Yicuo 蚁厝 are also part of the Lingyun xiashibaxiang 凌云下十八乡 (Lingyun lower eighteen village ritual alliance) and are administered by the Dongpuyu Administrative Village 东埔余行政村. The four villages of Chenshantou 陈山头, Dapu 大埔, Meilin 梅林, and Xiazhuang 下庄 are also part of the Zhupu ershiwuxiang 珠埔二十五乡 (Zhupu twenty-five village ritual alliance) and are managed by the Meishan Administrative Village 梅山行政村. The Niushan zumiao 牛山祖庙 on top of Niushan Mountain is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Xiexun shenghou 协顺圣侯, whose feast day is celebrated on 6/12. Other gods include the father and mother of the god, the Shengfu 圣父 and Shengmu Niushan qijing sevenfold ritual alliance 圣母, Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. During the 6th lunar month, between lunar 6/8 to 6/15, seven days of opera are performed at the temple with each village in the sevenfold alliance sponsoring one day of opera in turn. Historically, the Yu 余 lineage of Dongpuyu 东埔余 village was a prominent lineage with many examination graduates. During the Ming they produced one Jinshi 进士 and four Juren 举人. In Ming Chenghua 7 (1471) the Fujan Provincial Aministration Vice Commissioner set up a Jihshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Yu lineage. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Niushan sevenfold ritual alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V256 Dongpuyu 东埔余 1. Village settlement The total population of the village of Dongpuyu is approximately 1000 people. The Yu 余 makes up more than 95% of the population of the village. Other surnames include the Li 李 and other miscellanous surname groups 杂姓. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are no other sidelines. 2. Surname groups (The Yu 余) The Yu of Dongpuyu and the Yu of Duwei 度尾 of Xianyou 仙游 are related. The year of their migration to Dongpuyu is unknown. The Yu have been here for more than ten generations. The Yu are divided into four branches: the Jiucuoli 旧厝里 is called the founder’s line (Kaizu 开族), while Zhongdijiao 中帝角 is the first branch, Dating 大厅 is the second branch, Weicuo 尾厝 the third branch, and Zhaili 寨里 is the fourth branch. The first two branches have more people. There is a Yu ancestral hall 余氏祠堂, called the Xiaoshutang 校书堂. In the past, there were ancestral spirit tablets 仙牌 placed in the hall, but now it has been transformed into a school. The Yu are said to have originally emigrated from Zhejiang province 浙江, and some migrated back to Zhejiang later on. In recent years, some descendants came from Zhejiang to identify their ancestors in this village. The lineage genealogy existed in the past, but it was later taken by children to fly kites with, so it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Cuifeng shushê 翠峰书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Siye 四爷. 3) Zhuyuanting 驻源亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Minxi shuyuan 闽西书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8: the incense burners of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑 are draped in red veils and carried in a procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held with opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with marionette plays. 6/15: The celebration of Xiexun shenghou 协顺圣侯 is held with opera. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held with marionette plays. 11/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V257 Yicuo 蚁厝 1. Village settlement The total population of Yicuo village is less than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Yi 蚁, of which the Huang makes up 2/3 of the entire population, while the Yi 蚁 only have a few households. There are no sideline occupations in the village. Economic conditions are relatively poor. The Huang are now divided into four lineage branches: first branch, second branch, third branch, and fourth branch, of which the second branch has the most people, with approximately 20 people. The others only have a few households. There is no lineage genealogy or ancestral hall in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Wenxing xinshê 文兴新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Jinjiangjun 金将军, Wujiangjun 吴将军, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主, Niushangong shengfumu 牛山宫圣父母 and Yishangong shengfumu 怡山宫圣父母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯 is carried around the village on procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Fushou are selected by randomly picking lots. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held. Villagers go on a pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 to request the dou 请斗 “lamps of destiny”. 6/15–16: The celebration of Xiexun shengjou 协顺圣侯 is held, with opera performances. 8/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held with opera performances. 
V258 Houdong 后董 1. Village settlement The population of Houdong village is approximately 500–600 people (with more than 80 households). In addition to agriculture, the main livelihood is blacksmithing. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Yi 蚁, Zheng 郑, Chen 陈, Yang 杨, and Zhu 朱, of which the Huang has the most people, with approximately 300 people. The Yi 蚁 have 15–16 households. The Zheng 郑 have 5–6 households. The Chen 陈 has one household. It has been less than ten years since the Yang emigrated from Xiajiangtou 下江头 of Huangshi 黄石. The Huang 黄 is a single branch surname. Where the Huang emigrated from is unknown. The village has over ten households of Christians. 3. Village temples 1) Xingwen shushê 兴文书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Fengshangong 风山宫 is dedicated to Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, statues of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣候 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 are carried around the village on procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is also invited to hold rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/19: the celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held with two days of opera. Note: (1) Lanpen pudu Rites of Universal Deliverance 兰盆普渡: With the exception of Dongpuyu village, the villages of Yicuo and Houdong host the rites for the deliverance of the dead every two years. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited, and a marionette version of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 is performed. 
V259 Meilin 梅林 1. Village settlement There are a total of approximately 450 people living in Meilin village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wen 温. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing longshê 新兴龙社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Wanlingting 万林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the gods of Xinxing longshê 新兴龙社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯 (Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V260 Chenshantou 陈山头 1. Village settlement Chenshantou is also called Meishan 梅山, and is divided into neighborhoods such as Macuo 马厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Qianting 前厅, Houmen 后门, Houmian 后面, Wenbing 文柄 (Mubing 墓柄). There is a total of more than 2000 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 徐 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Puyuan shushê 埔源书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Shanshen 山神, Shiwuma 十五妈. 2) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Yuanshuiting 源水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Songpoci 松坡祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 21 claims that there are 315 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10, the gods of Puyuan shushê 埔源书社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Xiazhuang 下庄 1. Village settlement Approximately 100 people live in Xiazhuang village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples Zhengxi wenshê 郑西文社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 the gods of Zhengxi wenshê 郑西文社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V262 Dapu 大埔 1. Village settlement The total population of Dapu village is approximately 1900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Fan 范. 3. Village temples 1) Puyuan yishê 埔源益社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xieshun shenghou 协顺 圣侯. Secondary gods include Jinjiangjun 金将军 and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Songmingci 松明祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Baoshantang Buddhist temple 宝善堂 was built in the Ming (PTZJZ, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9 the gods of Puyuan yishê 埔源 益社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/18: The birthday celebration of Xieshun shenghou 协顺圣侯. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Yangmian qijing (Yangmian sevenfold ritual alliance) 洋面七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Yangmian is located along the lower slopes of Hugong Mountain 壶公山畔, in the far reaches of the Mulan irrigation system of the Southern irrigated plain. This area was originally part of the Dongyouhuaizuo Yicuopu 东郭槐佐蚁厝舖 (police/defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. In the Qing, there were the villages of Dongguo 东郭, Huaizuo 槐佐, and Houcuo 侯厝 in this region, and by the end of the Qing the villages of Yangmian 洋面, Xiaxi 下西 and Qiaotou 桥头 had separated off. In recent times, these villages have been under the management of the Haizao Administrative Village 亥灶行政村. They are also members of the Linyun xiashibaxiang 凌云下十八乡 (Lingyun lower eighteen village ritual alliance). The Baolingong 宝林宫 temple and the Zhengtang zushê 郑塘祖社, located in Yangmian 洋面 village, is the main overall temple and founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 as well as Erlangshen 二郎神. Each year on lunar 1/15 Erlangshen 二郎神 is invited to go on a procession around the sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. In addition, the Longyingtang 龙应堂 temple, located in Bancuo 板厝 village, is the main temple of a fivefold ritual alliance made up of the villages of Qiancuo 前厝, Houcuo 后厝, Houcuo 侯厝, Xiaxi 下西 and Qiaotou 桥头. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Yangmian was part of the black banner alliance. 
V263 Yangmian 洋面 1. Village settlement The total population of Yangmian village is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄 which emigrated from Huian 惠安. 3. Village temples Baolingong 宝林宫 contains the altar of the Zhengtang zushê 郑塘祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erlangshen 二郎神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heimian jiangjun 黑面将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and invite the Lamps of Destiny (qingdou 请斗) from Lingyundian 凌云殿. On 1/15, Erlangshen 二郎神 is invited to go on procession to the villages of the ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Baolingong 宝林宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Yangmian sevenfold ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V264 Dongguo 东郭 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Dongguo village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Zhou 周, and the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Baolingong 宝林宫 houses the altar of the Zhengtang zushê 郑塘祖社. This temple branched off from the Baolingong and Zhengtang zushê of Yangmian 洋面 in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erlangshen 二郎神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heimian jiangjun 黑面将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, villagers go on a pilgrimage and offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) dou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿. On 1/15, Erlangshen 二郎神 is invited to go on procession within the villages of the ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the entire village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/19: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V265 Haizao 亥灶 1. Village settlement Haizao village is divided into Shanghaizao 上亥灶 and Xiahaizao 下亥灶. Approximately 700 people live in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhuang 庄 and Huang 黄. The Zhuang emigrated from Huian 惠安, and they are divided into two branches: the Shang zhuang 上庄 and the Xiazhuang 下庄 branches. There used to be a Zhuang ancestral hall 庄氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Taoshangong 陶山宫 contains the altar of the Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Dashiye 大使爷, Ershiye 二使爷, Jin shuaiye 金帅爷, and Shanshen 山神. 2) Fuxingshê 福兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Baiyundong 白云洞: The main god is Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) qingdou 请斗 from the Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on Hugong 壶公 Mountain. On 1/12 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dashiye 大使爷 are invited to go to every household to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/14 the gods of Taoshangong 陶山宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Villagers go on pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong 壶公 mountain to request incense 请香. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is also celebrated. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V266 Bancuo 板厝 1. Village settlement Bancuo village is divided into two neighborhoods: Qiancuo 前厝 and Houcuo 后厝. There is a total of approximately 350 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Cai 蔡, and Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Longyingtang 龙应堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Longshu zushi 龙树祖师, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zougong yuanshuai 邹公元帅, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Tielushê 铁炉社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Qingyingtai 清应台 is dedicated to Kong fu daren 孔府大人. 4) Jidongshan 即东山 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and “request the dipper” (lamps of destiny) qingdou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 mountain. On 1/13 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Kong daren is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized by the Tielushê 铁炉社. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V267 Houcuo 侯厝 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Houcuo village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Ren 任 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Tielushê 铁炉社 is located in Bancuo 板厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tianqingfu 天清府 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Juyuanting 聚源亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Su daren 苏大人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and request the dipper (Lamps of Destiny) qingdou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong mountain. On 1/12 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂 and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession within the village and in Qiaotou 桥头 and Xiaxi 下西 villages. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the three village alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. The villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense to the god at the Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on Hugong mountain. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Su daren 苏大人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Tielushê 铁炉社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V268 Qiaotou 桥头 1. Village settlement Qiaotou is also known as Tongtianqiao 通天桥. There are more than 200 people living in Qiaotou village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Guo 郭 and the Zhuo 卓. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tielushê 铁炉社 is located in Bancuo 板厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tianqingfu 天清府 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Shunxingting 顺兴亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮 尊天. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and request the dipper (Lamps of Destiny) qingdou 请斗 from the Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong mountain. On 1/12 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂 and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession within the village and in Bancuo 板厝 and Xiaxi 下西 villages as well. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the three village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Marionette plays are performed. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/2: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed, and Three-in-One scripture masters 经师 are invited to con   duct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Tielu shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V269 Xiaxi 下西 1. Village settlement Approximately 100 people live in Xiaxi village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Longyingtang 龙应堂 houses the altar of the Quanxingshê 泉兴社. This temple branched off from the Tielushê 铁炉社 of Bancuo 板厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go on pilgrimage to offer incense and request the dipper (Lamps of Destiny) qing dou 请斗 from Lingyundian 凌云殿 on top of Hugong mountain. On 1/12 the gods of Longyingtang 龙应堂 and Tielushê 铁炉社 are invited to go on procession within the village itself and in Qiaotou 桥头 and Bancuo 板厝 villages as well. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the three village alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the entire village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A057 Lingui qijing (Lingui sevenfold ritual alliance) 林桂七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingui is located on the slopes of Hugong Mountain 壶公山 in the far reaches of the Mulan irrigation system of the Southern Irrigated plain. This area was part of the Qiaotou banshanpu 桥头 坂上铺 (police/defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. These villages are also within the Linyun lower eighteen village alliance 凌云下十八乡. In the Ming, this area had Xiayu village 下余村. In the Qing the villages of Xuke Lingui sevenfold ritual alliance 徐柯, Moshangkeng 磨上坑, Cangfeng 仓缝 and Lingui 林桂 separated off. By the end of the Qing, the villages of Pengmu 彭墓, Shanglin 上林, and Chisong 赤松 had separated off. Currently the seven natural villages of the ritual alliance have a population of approximately 3000 people who are all under the management of the Guilin Administrative Village 桂林行政村. The Zhaohuigong 昭灵宫 temple and its Zhaohui zushê 昭灵祖社, located in Lingui 林桂村 village, is the main temple and founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingui The main god is Chifeng Huiji shenghou 敕封惠济圣侯. Each year on lunar 1/16 a collective general Yuanxiao ritual is held, and Chifeng Huiji shenghou 敕封惠济圣侯 is taken on a procession to all the villages of the ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Lingui sevenfold ritual alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. Apart from agriculture, the village economy is also supplemented by construction work such as brick-laying and carpentry done during agricultural idle periods. 
V270 Lingui 林桂 1. Village settlement The village of Lingui has more than 1000 people and includes the neighborhoods of Canghou 仓后, also known as Cangfeng 仓缝. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Lin 林, who are divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples Zhaoling gong 昭灵宫, Zhaoling zushê 昭灵祖社 This is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingui 林桂七境. (There used to be three halls to the temple complex. Two halls were destroyed during the rebellion of the “Sixteenth Emperor” Huang Lian 黄濂, in the Republican period. The temple was rebuilt ten years ago, and became the main temple for the lower eighteen village alliance). The temple is subdivided into five shê altars: Xinshê 新社, including the villages of Shanglin 上林, Pengmu 彭墓, Mazhukeng 马竹坑, and Chisong 赤松. The Dongshê 东社 which belongs to Xiayu 下余; the Zushê 祖社 which belongs to Canghou 苍后 (Lingui 林桂); the Shengshê 圣社 which belongs to Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝 but which has not yet been rebuilt, and the Shushê 书社, which belongs to Xuke 徐柯. The temple is dedicated to the imperially enfeoffed Huiji shenghou 敕封惠济圣侯 Secondary gods are Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 (Xinshê 新社), Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 (Xinshe), and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 (Xinshe) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated at the founding shê altar (Zushê 祖社). On 1/16 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Early in the 2nd lunar month, the rites of Toufu are celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/9: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 
V271 Mazhukeng 马竹坑 1. Village settlement Mazhukeng was originally known as Moshangkeng (磨上坑). The village of Mazhukeng has more than 240 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Lin 林, Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples Masongjing Zhaoling xinshê 马松境昭灵新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sima shengren 司马圣人. This temple is co-owned by the villages of Shanglin 上林, Pengmu 彭墓, Mazhukeng 马竹坑 and Chisong 赤松. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19, Huiji shenghou 慧济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried around the village on procession. A ritual host is selected from the middle-aged and elders of Shanglin 上林, Xuke 徐柯, Pengmu 彭墓 and Muzhukeng 马竹坑. One host per year is selected. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct a Jiao rite. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/26: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held and marionette plays are performed. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct rites. 
V272 Pengmu 彭墓 1. Village settlement The village of Pengmu has more than 160 people. 2. Surname groups Almost all the villagers are of the Lin 林 surname group. The Lin of Mazhukeng 马竹坑 and Pengmu 彭墓 makes up approxmately 250–300 people. It is said that the rituals of the Lin are very close to those of the Minnan people 闽南人 (i.e. celebrating the feast for the hungry ghosts on 7/15 rather than on 10/15 as is usual in the Putian area). They might have come from Huian 惠安. Currently, there are two places for their ancestral tombs. In the past, there was common worship by the lineage, but it no longer happens today. There is no lineage genealogy. The Lin of the two village are divided into four branches, the first and second branches are in Pengmu, and the third and fourth branches are in Mazhukeng. The first branch has the most people, with approximately 100 people. 3. Village temples Masongjing Zhaoling xinshê 马松境昭灵新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19 Huiji shenghou 慧济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession through the villages of Shanglin 上林, Xuke 徐柯, Pengmu 彭墓, and Mazhukeng 马竹坑. This is organized by the elders of each village. Each year one of them is selected to be the ritual organizer. Also each year three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao 建醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: All the birthdays of all the gods are celebrated together on this day. Opera is performed for two days, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. 
V273 Chisong 赤松 1. Village settlement There are about 400 people living in Chisong village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Niu 牛, and Zheng 郑, of which the Lin makes up 80% of the entire population. 3. Village temples Zhaoling xinshê 昭灵新社 is located in Mazhukeng 马竹坑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19, Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: The birthdays of gods are celebrated together. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. 
V274 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement The village of Shanglin has more than 200 people. 2. Surname groups The majority of the people are of the Lin 林 surname group. This village was originally part of Pengmu 彭墓, but it branched off later on. There is only one Huang 黄 household. 3. Village temples Zhaoling xinshê 昭灵新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–19 Huiji shenghou 慧济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession through the villages of Shanglin 上林, Xuke 徐柯, Pengmu 彭墓, and Mazhukeng 马竹坑. Each year three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao 建醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: All the birthdays of all the gods are celebrated together on this day. Opera is performed for two days, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. 
V275 Xuke 徐柯 1. Village settlement Xuke village includes Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝. There are more than 500 people living in the village, 2. Surname groups Over 100 of villagers belong to the Ke 柯 surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling shushê 昭灵书社 (which belongs to Xuke 徐柯) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhaoling shengshê 昭灵圣社 (which also belongs to Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Xuke 徐柯 takes the incense burners of the shê altar on a procession through their area. On 1/18, Yuanxiao 元宵 is held for Xuwei 徐尾 and Tiancuo 田厝, and the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession through these areas. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, a celebration is held for all the gods of the shê temple. Opera is performed for two days. 
V276 Xiayu 下余 1. Village settlement There are more than 500 people living in Xiayu village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. The Cai make up 80% of the entire population. It is said that their ancestors emigrated from Dongshan 东山 of the Lingquan township. There is a lineage genealogy. The Cai 蔡 in the village are divided into two branches: Qiangdou 墙兜 and Dingcuo 顶厝 are part of the first branch, and Licheng 利埕 and Xiating 下厅 are part of the second branch. The second branch makes up more than 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling dongshê 昭灵东社 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is a secondary deity. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, all the gods are celebrated together with two days of opera. 
A058 Lingyun shangshibaxiang (Lingyun eighteen village ritual alliance) 凌云上十八乡 The Lingyun upper eighteen village alliance is located at the feet of the Hugong Mountain 壶公山麓 at the far reaches of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system of the Southern irrigated plain. In the early Qing, these villages were declared out of bounds 界外, and they were forcibly evacuated. This area was part of the Meilong qianpupu 梅陇前埔铺 (police/defense unit), the Shentang longjinpu 沈塘龙津铺, the Lingcuopu 凌厝铺 and the Qianting Qicaipu 前亭祁蔡铺of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton and the Chicenpu 赤岑铺 of Guoqingli 国清里 sub-canton. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Xintang 新塘, Jiaojinyang 交津洋, Meilong 梅陇, Daban 大阪, and Qiling 祁凌. In the early Qing the following villages separated off: Longcuo 陇厝, Qianpu 前埔, Xincuo 新厝, Gouwei 沟尾, Qianwei 前尾, Lingcuo 凌厝, Qianting 前亭, Qicuo 祁厝, Caicuo 蔡厝, Dongsong 东宋, Huangzhaipu 黄宅埔, Liucuo 刘厝, and Yingcuo 缨厝. More recently, the following villages have separated off: Xiagou 下沟, Yingbian 营边, Kengbei 坑北, and Baita 白塔. There are now over twenty natural villages in the area, which are managed by the following eight Administrative Villages: Gouwei 沟尾, Longtou 龙头, Daban 大坂, Dongsong 东宋, Lingcuo 凌厝, Liucuo 刘厝, Qicuo 歧厝, Lingmei 岭美. Mingshangong 名山宫 temple, which is located on the foothills of Hushan mountain 壶公山 in the Shanxiangjing 善乡境 is the main temple for the upper eighteen village alliance. The main god of the temple is Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, whose feast day is celebrated on lunar 8/9. The secondary gods are Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母, Haoyu dishi 俣玉 帝师 (Mingshanwang 名山王), Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Xugong taibao 徐公太保, Dianqian sijiangjun 殿前四位将军: Jin, 金, Wei 魏, Dong 董, Li 李. The temple complex was expanded in 1991 to include the Shaoxingsi 绍兴寺, situated on the left of the Mingshangong. This monastery was in existence already in the Sui Dynasty, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with secondary gods Jintong 金童, Yunü 玉女, Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. Also attached to the temple is the Jiuxiandong 九仙洞 cavern-temple. The villages of the alliance take turns inviting the gods of this temple to their home village temples to watch opera. Each year with an intercalary second lunar month, the gods go on a procession to all the eighteen villages of the ritual alliance. Historically, the Xu lineage of Meilong 梅陇徐氏 and the Zheng 郑 lineage of Daban, were two prominent lineages in this area renowned for their examination graduates. In the Ming the Xu lineage produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eight Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) while the Zheng lineage produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and two Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). Lingyun upper eighteen village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the eighteen villages of the Linyun upper alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V277 Xintang 新塘 1. Village settlement Xintang was originally called Shentang 沈塘, and is part of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. The population of the Xintang village is approximately 1800 people. Apart from agriculture, the livelihood of the entire village comes from some cash crops. Some villagers also work as bricklayers, carpenters and casual workers during the idle periods of agriculture. 2. Surname groups The Cai 蔡 makes up 80–90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Huang 黄, Lin 林, and Chen 陈. The Cai 蔡 moved from the Lingchuan 灵川. Their ancestral tombs are located in Fengting 枫亭 in Xianyou 仙游. The Cai are divided into two branches, the Weicuo branch 尾厝 and the fourth branch 四房. The fourth branch has approximately 1000 people. The Cai of Dongcai in Lingquan township 灵川东蔡 have a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Gutang dongshê 古塘东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Pumingtang 普明堂 was originally named Xintangan 新塘庵. This temple is the Shuikoumiao 水口庙 of the thirty-six village alliance 三十六乡. Built during the Song Chunyou period (1241–52), it was renovated in the Qing in Guangxu 22 (1896). The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include the Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Shanfa’an Buddhist nunnery 善发庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the gods of Gutang dongshê 古塘东社 are taken on a procession through the village. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct a jiao 做醮. Lanterns go on procession around the boundaries of the village. Four organizers are selected each year. On 2/ 2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The six gods of Mingshangong 名山宫 are invited to go on procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian Shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. 10/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu Furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Mingshanwang 名山王 and the gods mentioned above. Opera is performed for two days. On a day either in the 10th or 11th lunar month, marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V278 Gouwei village 沟尾 1. Village settlement Gouwei natural village is part of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. The entire village has a population of 1300 people. The livelihoods are similar to those of Xintang 新塘. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Yang 杨, and Peng 彭. The Chen have approximately 1200 people, and belong to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. The Chen has reached the 15th generation. The Chen is divided into five branches, which are the first branch, second branch, third branch, fourth branch and the fifth branch. The first branch has the most people, with more than 700 people. There is a Chen ancestral hall, which is now used as the opera house. There is a lineage genealogy (the same as the one in Kuokou 阔口). 3. Village temples 1) Jumingtang 聚明堂: Main god: Lubu xiangong 鲁部 相公, Lubu furen 鲁部夫人. Secondary gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Pufa tianzun 普法天尊, Shangdiye 上帝爷, Wenye 温爷, Xuantan gong 玄坛公, and Huangxuan yuanshuai 黄玄元帅. 2) Baofu xishê 保福西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Heyitang 合一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guandiye 关帝爷, and Xuantangong 玄坛公. 4) Juxinting 聚新亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Kuangwang yuanshuai 匡王元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of the Baofu xishê 保福西社 are taken on procession. The Chen 陈 organize this event: four hosts (Fushou) and four assistant host positions are rotated into each year according to age. Toufu 头福 rites are held on 2/ 2 and opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公 is held with marionette plays. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with marionette plays. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. The god is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to the village to watch the operas. Four or five Daoist ritual masters hold a jiao rite 做醮. The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with two days of opera. 10/24: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held and marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three in One Scripture masters 经师 conduct (chaodu) 超度 deliverance rites in groups of three. 9/9:Qinwei 沁尾 1. Village settlement Qinwei is also know as Xinwei 新尾. Qinwei is part of the Gouwei Administrative Village 沟尾行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Qinwei village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨. Other surnames include the Peng 彭 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Qinmeian 沁美庵, Baofu dongshê 保福东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods include Kuang wang 匡王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Huye 虎爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 a pilgrimage is made to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong mountain where incense is offered 进香 and “lamps of destiny” are requested (qingdou 请斗). Opera performances are held at the Lingyundian temple. On 1/15 the gods of Baofu dongshê 保福东社 go on procession within the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/20: the celebration of Kuang wang 匡王 is held. 4/12: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/7: another celebration of Kuangwang 匡王 is held. 8/3: Huanggong yuanshuai of Mingshangong 名山宫黄公元帅 is invited to the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V280 Longtou 龙头 1. Village settlement Longtou is also called Meilong 梅陇 and Longcuo 陇厝. Longtou natural village is part of the Longtou Administrative Village 龙头行政村. Longtou village is also called Meilong 梅陇 and Longcuo 陇厝. The entire village has a population of more than 500 people. Apart from agriculture and raising cash crops and fruit, the livelihood of the entire village is based on short term work in the city during agricultural idle periods. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Li 李, Zheng 郑, Xiao 肖, Wang 王, Lan 兰, and Huang 黄, of which the Chen makes up close to one third of the total population. The Chen of the village are miscellaneous Chen 杂陈 who do not belong to the same ancestry. They are divided into the Chen of Shangcuo 上厝陈, the Chen of Xiacuo 下厝陈 (of the same ancestry), the Chen of Quanzhou 泉州陈, the Chen of Daitou 埭头陈, and the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. Among the divisions, the Chen of Xiacuo has the most people, approximately 90 people. There is no ancestral hall. 3. Village temples Mingshandong 名山洞, Shaoxing zushê 绍兴祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions Between 1/5–15, the Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Mingshangong 名山宫 is invited to the village. On 1/13–14, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Tianshang Shengmu 天上圣母, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 carry out a Jiao 建醮 ritual. A lantern procession traces the village boundaries at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch two days of opera. 8/5–6: Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to watch two days of opera. 10/8: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held at the Mingshangong 名山宫. Marionette versions of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V281 Xipu 西埔 1. Village settlement Xipu is also called Qianpu 前埔. Xipu is part of the Longtou Administrative Village 龙头行政村. The village of Xipu has more than 750 people. Apart from agriculture and cash crops and fruit trees, the livelihood of the entire village is to work in the city during agricultural idle periods. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林, and they makes up approximately 600 of the entire population of 750 people in the village. Other surnames include the Wu 吴, Peng 彭, Li 李, Zhang 张, and Zheng 郑. It is said that the ancestors of the Lin came from Chidi 赤地 of Donghuang 东黄 in Putian city. The Lin are divided into four branches: Weicuo 尾厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, Jingdou 井兜, and Xiacuo 下厝, of which the Jingdou branch has the most people, with approximately 400 people. 3. Village temples Shaoxing xinshê 绍兴新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Yugong taibao 余公太保, Wenye 温爷, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the gods are invited back to the temple, and three Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. On 1/14–15, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Yugong taibao 余公太保, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are invited to go on a procession. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct a Jiao 建醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods Since the economic condition of the village is rather poor, only a few celebrations are held every year. The only birthday celebration of the gods is held in the 8th lunar month, from the 9th to the 11th, when the incense of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of Mingshangong 名山宫 is requested and brought back to the village. At that time, opera is performed for three days. 
V282 Shangdaban 上大坂 1. Village settlement Shangdaban is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The village of Shangdaban has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 makes up more than 50% of the population. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Gao 高, Zhuo 卓, Dai 戴, Zhu 朱, and Yu 俞. According to the posted lists of the donations to village rituals arranged by production teams 生产队, the Chen are mainly concentrated in the 5th, 4th and 7th team, of which the 4th has approximately 150 people and the 7th has the most people, at approximately 240–250 people. 3. Village temples 1) Songpojing Qingyinggong 松坡境清应宫 contains the altar of the Baofushê 保福社, and was built in 1989 collectively by Shangdaban and Xiadaban villages; this is the main temple for these two natural villages. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 (who belongs to Shangdaban 上大坂), and Zhongji shenghou 忠济圣侯 (who belongs to Xiadaban 下大坂). Secondary gods include Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君, Fazhu xiangu 法主仙姑, Sijiang 四将, and Baban 八班. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–18, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯 goes on procession. One host (Fushou) it is selected by rotation according to age each year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shenghou 司马圣侯 is held with two days of opera. Three Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
V283 Xiadaban 下大坂 1. Village settlement Xiadaban is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The total population of the village is approximately 1100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups include the Li 李, Xie 谢, Cai 蔡, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑, of which the Weng makes up more than 50% of the population. The Zheng have approximately 100 people. The Zheng 郑 emigrated from Dongmen 东门 of Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenhuci 枕壶祠 houses the Baofushê 保福社 which is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary goddess is Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. 2) Shanqing tang Buddhist hall 善庆堂 (PTZJZ, 1992) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–16, Zhongji shenghou 忠济 圣侯 is carried on procession. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/9: The celebration of Zhongji shenghou 忠济圣侯 is held with two days of opera. 10/4: Lanpen chaodu 兰盆超度 rites of deliverance are held. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 conduct the rites, and marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V284 Mokengli 磨坑里 1. Village settlement Makengli is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The village has a total population of approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Su 苏, Lin 林, Fu 傅, Xu 许, and Zheng 郑, of which the Su have approximately 200 people while the Zheng have more than 100 people. The Su 苏 are divided into four lineage branches. The Zheng 郑 moved from Changtai 常太, and are divided into four branches, of which Wuzhuli 五主里 branch has the most people, with approximately 60–70 people. 3. Village temples Mokenglijing Liangxigong 磨坑里境梁溪宫 contains the altar of the Xingtingshê 兴亭社. The temple is dedicated to Jixianggong 吉祥公, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dadiye 大帝爷, and Tudigong 土地公. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Jixianggong 吉祥公 is carried in a procession around the village. Every year, one person takes turn to become the Fushou. No opera is performed. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/5: The celebration of Jixianggong 吉祥公 is held with two days of opera. Three Daoist ritual masters hold a jiao rite 做醮. 
V285 Huangtoupu 黄头埔 1. Village settlement Huangtoupu is part of the Daban Administrative Village 大坂行政村. The village has a total population of approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李, Weng 翁, Xin 辛, and Chen 陈, of which the Li has the most number of people, with approximately 400 people. The Chen only have four households. The Li are divided into two branches. When and where they emigrated from is unknown. The two branches have approximately the same number of people. 3. Village temples Meihuashê 梅花社 was built in the Ming, according to inscriptions on the temple rafters, with funds from several local literati. The village only has only one temple. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, as well as Baima jiangjun 白马将军 and Chima jiangjun 赤马将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two days of opera. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V286 Kengbei 坑北 1. Village settlement Kengbei is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Kengbei village. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yang 杨 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Fufenggong 阜峰宫 houses the altar of the Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Xugong taibao 徐公 太保, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17–18 the gods of Fufenggong 阜峰宫 and Anfushê 安福社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V287 Baita 白塔 1. Village settlement Baita village is part of Lingmei Administrative Village 岭美行政村. Baita is divided into three neighborhoods: Xincuo 新厝, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Xiacuo 下厝. There are approximately 450 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xinglinggong 兴灵宫 houses the Xingminshê 兴民社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yang baniang 杨八娘, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, and the Bajiang 八将. 2) Wanyingting 万应亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/21 the gods of the Xinglinggong 兴灵宫 and Xingminshê 兴民社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the village participates in the eighteen village alliance procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V288 Liucuo 刘厝 1. Village settlement Liucuo natural village is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. There are approximately 200 people living in Liucuo village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples Kuishagong 奎山宫 contains the Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Xugong taibao 徐公太保, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Huisantang 汇三堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:21 claims that there are 144 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Anfushê 安福社 are invited to go to every household to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/17 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Kuishangong 奎山宫 is taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V289 Yingbian 营边 1. Village settlement Yingbian is part of Liucuo Administrative Village 刘厝行政村. There are approximately 600 people living in Yingbian village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Anfu lishê 安福里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公 元帅, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 the gods of Anfu lishê 安福 里社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. On both these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Caicuo 菜厝 1. Village settlement Caicuo village is part of Qicuo Administrative Village 歧厝行政村. Caicuo is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangcai 上菜 and Xiacai 下菜. There are approximately 800 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qilin xishê 麒麟西社 is connected to the Shanyingtang 善应堂. The temple was built in Kangxi 47 (1708). There is a stone inscription dated Daoguang 15 (1835). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 2) Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社 is connected to the Guanlanting 观澜亭: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Shangcai 上菜 takes the gods of Qilin xishê 麒麟西社 and Shanyingtang 善应堂 on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/12, Xiacai 下菜 takes the gods of Yanpu xinshê 颜埔 新社 and Guanlanting 观澜亭 on a procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by each shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Qilin xishê 麒麟西社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Shangcai 上菜. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Xiacai 下菜, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Shangcai 上菜, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yanpu xinshê 颜埔新社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xiacai 下菜, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Qicuo 岐厝 1. Village settlement Qicuo natural village is part of Qicuo Administrative Village 歧厝行政村. Qicuo is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangqi 上岐 and Xiaqi 下岐. There are approximately 2000 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Qishangong 岐山宫 houses the Qilin dongshê 麒麟 东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 2) Wananshê 万安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu fure 后土夫人. 3) Beichendian 北辰殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Huisantang 汇三堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 the gods of Qishangong 岐山宫, Qilin dongshê 麒麟东社, and Wananshê 万安社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Qilin dongshê 麒麟东社. These events are organized by the shê as a whole. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. These events are organized by Shangqi 上岐. 3/12: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 7/19: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐.. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wananshê 万安社. These events are organized by Shangqi 上岐. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. These events are organized by Xiaqi 下岐. On most of these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis by the organizing neighborhood or by the village as a whole. 8/14:Dongsong 东宋 1. Village settlement Dongsong natural village is part of Dongsong Administrative Village 东宋行政村. The population of Dongsong village is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Song 宋, Xu 许, Bao 鲍, Cai 蔡, Dong 董, and Zou 邹, of which the Song have the most people, at more than 700 people. The Xu are in second place, with approximately 500–600 people. The rest belong to miscellaneous surname groups. The Song 宋 emigrated from the Chengguan 城关 of Putian city 莆田. Currently, the Song are divided into three branches: Dingcuo 顶厝, Wuzu 五祖, and Xincuo 新厝 (Xiacuo 下厝), of which Wuzu has the most people, with approximately 300 people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it has already been taken down. The Xu 许 emigrated from the Xu of Kucuo 苦厝许 of Hushi 笏石. The Xu are divided into two branches: Toufang 头房and Weifang 尾房, of which the Weifang branch has more people, with approximately 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 (branched out from the Fushangong 福山宫 of Hushi 笏石), and was renovated in 1991. The main god: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. On 3/3, opera is performed for two days. There are usually three to five Daoist ritual masters 师公 invited to perform rites, but sometimes only one is invited. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Tiangonye 天公爷 (to whom villagers beg for rain 乞雨). 2) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 The secondary god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Xixian xinshê 西贤新社 (belongs to the Xu 许) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Shangyuan zushê 上元祖社 (belongs to the Song 宋) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元 帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (Xishê 西社), and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are carried in a procession around the village, and opera is performed for two days. Palm sedan chairs 摆棕轿 are used to carry the gods, and there is spirit medium writing or planchette writing (Fuji) 扶乩, but there are no spirit medium dances. As the gods pass by each household, each household asks the gods for a written character (usually, one or two characters are given to several households together). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held with two days of opera and three to five Daoist ritual masters conducting rites (although sometimes only one is invited). 9/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shangyuan zushê 上元祖社 is organized by the Song 宋. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixian xinshe 西贤新社 is organized by the Xu 许. 
V293 Xiting 西亭 1. Village settlement Xiting is part of Dongsong Administrative Village 东宋行政村. There are approximately 380 people living in Xiting village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Cai 蔡, and Zeng 曾, of which the Cai makes up approximately 2/3 of the population of the entire village. The Cai emigrated from Xianyou 仙游, but the exact year of the emigration is unknown. The Cai are divided into two branches: Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. Both branches have similar numbers of people. The Chen 陈 and the Zeng 曾 are distributed equally between Dingcuo and Xiacuo. There is no lineage genealogy or ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Jinshangong 金山宫 was built about 60 years ago. The temple is dedcated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Qilin dongshê 麒麟东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 is taken on procession through the village. Based on their age two people each year take turns to be the head organizer of the annual rituals and to act as the Fushou. Three Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to perform rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, with two days of opera. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited to conduct the rites. 
V294 Lingcuo 凌厝 1. Village settlement Lingcuo natural village is managed by Lingcuo Administrative Village 凌厝行政村. There are approximately 600 people living in Lingcuo village. It is divided into four production teams 生产队. The main livelihoods are stone cutting 打石, carpentry 木工, and hard labor. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Ling 凌 which makes up more than 90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 (more than 10 households) and the Weng 翁 (only one household). The Ling originally lived here. Later, the Ling branched out to Pingtan 平潭 and Baiyang 白洋. The Ling are divided into four branches: first branch 头房, second branch 二房 (Jiucuoli 旧厝里), third branch 三房 (Tianding 田顶), and fourth branch 四房 (Hougaowei 后高尾), of which the first branch has the most people, with approximately 200–300 people. There used to be three ancestral halls, but none exists today. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing zhongshê 新兴忠社 This shê has been transformed into the village hygienic clinic 村卫生所. The gods are now placed in the cafeteria 食堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Lingshan zumiao 灵山祖庙 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Jinfu sheren 金府舍人, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 3) Longanci 龙安祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The left hall is known as the Longtingdong 龙亭洞 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The right hall is called the Longmen shuyuan 龙门书院, and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4) Hualingsi 华林寺 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the statues of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jinfu sheren 金府舍人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wu jiangjun 吴将军, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried around the village in a procession. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Every year, six people are selected to be the ritual organizers/hosts (Fushou). 
V295 Xiagou 下沟 1. Village settlement Xiagou village is managed by Lingcuo Administrative Village 凌厝行政村. The village has a total population of only 200 people. The Chen 陈 makes up 70% of the population, while the Xue 薛 makes up 30%. 2. Surname groups (Chen 陈) The Chen of the village emigrated from two different places, and are called the Danfang 单房. One branch emigrated from Gouwei 沟尾 of Changjiang 长江, and this branch has more than 100 people. The other branch is from Lingcuo 凌厝, and they have less people. The Chen ancestral hall is in Gouwei 沟尾. 3. Village temples 1) Lingshangong 灵山宫 is the main overall temple, and belongs to Xiagou ritual territory 下沟境. The temple is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Shiwuma 十五妈, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xinxing zhongshê 新兴中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. No opera is performed. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the statue of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is carried around the village in a procession. Every year, two people are selected to lead the organization of ritual activities (Zuotou 做头). Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/6: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with two days of opera, or with performances of marionette plays. Two or three Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold rites. 
V296 Goujinyang 沟津洋 1. Village settlement Goujinyang village is managed by Lingcuo Administrative Village 凌厝行政村. The total population of the village is approximately 1000 people. The economic conditions are poor. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Mao 茅, Wu 武, Weng 翁, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈, of which the Mao and the Wu each make up 30% of the total population. According to local elders, the Mao emigrated from Xianyou 仙游 over 100 years ago. They first moved to Dongsong 东宋, then one household moved to Goujingyang. Now the Mao in this village are divided into four branches, but the number of people in each branch is unknown. There are no ancestral halls or lineage genealogies. 3. Village temples The village only has one shê, Baoanshê 保安社. It was built in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. There are no the birthday celebrations. 2) Anlutang 安芦堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:16 claims that there are 268 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the statues of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 are carried on procession. One marionette play is performed. Every year, three to four people take turns to be headsmen (Zuotou 做头). Neither Daoist ritual masters 师公 nor Three in One Scripture master 经师 are invited to perform rites. 
A059 (
V297 Hengtang qijia (Hengtang seven jia ritual alliance) 横塘七甲 Hengtang 横塘) 1. Village settlement Hengtang was also called Hengqu 横渠 in the Tang. Hengtang is located in between the Shangxia 上下渠大沟 main channel and the main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门前大沟 of the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Hengtangpu (police/ defense unit) of Anleli 安乐里 sub-canton. In the Tang dynasty, the area already had a village called Hengtang, and the village currently has more than 4000 people. In the local temple ritual system, they are divided according to lineage and settlement into seven jia ritual associations. In the Ming, Hengtang was famous for its examination graduates, and the six lineages of the Peng 彭, Qiu 邱, Zhu 朱, Zhang 张, Lin 林, and Chen 陈 of this village together produced eighteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and thirty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Tianshu 4 (1460) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Lin lineage 林. In Ming Chenghua 12 (1476) the Fujian Provincial Administration Commissioner 福建布政使 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Qiu lineage 邱. There still survives a stele from Qianlong 59 (1794) inscribed with the words “Tangqing wujian 塘清武鉴”. The inscription reads further: “Tang yuanhe wuzi (808) Metropolitan Graduate and Editor in the Palace Library Zhang Shi 张实 bequeathed land to build a hall. Song Taiping Tianguo xuyin (808) General of the Palace Army Zhang Songhui 张忪恢 expanded it; Song Shaoxing renzi (1132) Grand Master for Closing Court Zhang Dounan 张斗南 rebuilt the hall.” The stone inscription composed by Peng Peng 彭鹏 in Kangxi 30 (1691), entitled 横塘彭氏宗祠春祀记 (Record of the Spring sacrifice at the Hengtang Peng main ancestral hall), is about the Peng Ancestral hall of this village (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:222, No. 192). In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the seven jia ritual associations of Hengtang were part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Hengtang now are the Zhang 张, Huang 黄, and Zheng 郑. According to the survey data from 1993, there are 400 Zhang households, approximately forty Huang households, approximately forty Zheng households, six Chen 陈 households, four Wu 吴 households, three Ruan 阮 households, one Zhu 朱 household and two Lin 林 households. The ancestor of the Zhang of Hengtang, Zhang Shigong 张实公, is said to be the ancestor that migrated to Fujian. It is said that aHengtang seven jia ritual alliance shê altar was built in the village even back during the Tang Dynasty. The Zhang later branched out to Putian 莆田, including Yaotai 瑶台, Shaban 沙坂, Shadi 沙堤, Shanxiang 善乡, Kengbing 坑柄, Yangdai 洋岱, Yangwei 洋尾, Chiqi 赤崎, Nanri 南日. Each year, there are seven people who are selected in rotation to be Fushou 福首: five come from the Zhang surname group, and one each from the Zheng and the Huang surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Hengqujing Wananshê 横渠境万安社 (Hengtang lishê 横塘里社): Renovated in 1986. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Zhou taibao 周太保. Right altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Chen dashi 陈大使. 2) Shilanggong 石廊宫: Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Left altar: Zhengshun shenghou 正顺圣侯. Right altar: Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 (Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯). 3) Baotanchan 宝坛阐: Its original site was the Gushetan 古社坛 of Baofushê 保福社, which was the ancestral shê (zushe) of Hengtang 横塘, Xintang 新塘, Tangtou 塘头, Xikeng 西坑, Xihu 西湖 and Gouwei 沟尾. The carved couplets on the pillars of the temple read: 法绍庐山资保福, indicating a connection with Lushan Daoism. There is also an extent stele from 1936 entitled “Stele Record of the reconstruction of the Precious Altar” (重建宝坛阐碑记). Worshipped on the middle altar are Wutan liesheng 五坛 列圣 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Jianlei yushi 监雷 御史, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wugong shenghou 伍公 圣侯. 4) Zhongshantang 中山堂 was built in Guangxu 27 (1901). This temple is now in its fifth generation of initiates now, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left altar: San feng zhen ren 三峰真人. On the right altar: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1100 initiates. 5) Qiushenmiao 邱神庙 was rebuilt in 1992 and is dedicated to Qiu laoye 邱老爷. 6) Qinglanting 清兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Linyundian 灵云殿 was rebuilt in recent years, and the main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 8) Ruyitang Buddhist hall 如义堂 was built in 1943. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 9) Shanfutang Buddhist hall 善福堂 was built in 1884. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 10) Xihusi Buddhist temple 西壶寺 was built in 1961. (PTZJZCG, 1992:217) 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–16, the five-jia of the Zhang 张 surname group take turns in inviting Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go on procession. Opera is performed for three days, and the joy candles 喜烛 are lit. On 1/17, the Xiazhujia 下洙甲 of the Zheng 郑 surname group invites Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯 to go on procession. On 1/18, the Gouhanjia 沟汵甲 of the Huang 黄 surname group invites Wugong shenghou 吾公 圣侯 to go on procession. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. Spirit mediums seal the roadways (Fenglu 封路). Opera is performed for three days, and a Jiao ritual is conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2/10: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Wugong shenghou 伍公圣侯. Daoist ritual masters are invited to pray for the safety and health of the entire village in groups of five. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuozhenren 卓真人 is organized by Zhongshantang 中山堂. Marionette plays are performed. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/10: The celebration of Qiu laoye 邱老爷 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/4: The birthday celebration of Wugong shenghou 吾公圣侯. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10/29: The birthday celebration of Mengdage 孟大哥. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted at the Zhongshantang 中山堂 for the hungry ghosts. 11/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
A060 (
V298 Yushang ershê (Yuhsang two shê ritual alliance) 屿上二社 Yushang 屿上) 1. Village settlement The two shê ritual alliance of Yushang is located at the beginning of the northern main channel of the Mulan irrigation system, at the start of the Mulan Weir Main Channel 木兰陂沟. This area was part of the Yushang Shimenpu 屿上石门铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南厢里 sub-canton. The village began to be settled in only in the early Qing, and it now has a population of over 1000 people. Yushang is part of the Tieyu Administrative Village 铁屿行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage origin into the two shê ritual associations of Zifu 资福 and Xingan 兴安二社. Each year six shêlu 社炉 (keepers of the incense burners of the shê altar) are selected in rotation. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈. The Chen 陈 are however divided into two distinct lines: the Fushan 浮山 and Jiewai 界外 lines. The Fushan Chen came from Linchuanli 灵川里 sub-canton, south of Putian city, and are related to the Chen of Dongyang 东洋陈氏. They make up some 70% of the village population. The Chen from “beyond the borders” moved to the village during the early Qing coastal evacuation, and now make up 30% of the village population. 3. Village temples 1) Zifu dongshê 资福东社 belongs to the Fushan Chen 浮山陈: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Chenshi zhenjun 陈氏真君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 2) Xing’an shushê 兴安书社 belongs to the Jiewai Chen 界外陈: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Fengchan shimiao 冯禅师庙: The main god is Feng Zhiri Chanshi 冯智 日禅师. Yushang two shê ritual alliance 5) Damafu 大妈府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 6) Zongshengtang 宗圣堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 7) Ciguangsi Buddhist temple 慈光寺 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:203) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and to go on a procession within the village. During the procession the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 are rapidly turned upside down to manifest the presence of the god and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Lanterns are paraded at night. On 1/15 the gods of Zifu dongshê 资福东社 and Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/15: The birthday celebration Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙. Marionette opera is performed. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zongshengtang 宗圣堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held and marionette opera is performed. 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, except the birthday of Sanyi jiaozhu, which is celebrated by the initiates of the Three in One and interested villagers, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A061 (
V299 Huangtou ershê (Huangtou two shê ritual alliance) 黄头二社 Huangtou 黄头) 1. Village settlement Huangtou is also called Hangtou 杭头. The village is located just north of the Hangkou dike 杭口堤 along the northern banks of the Mulan 木兰 river, near the main channel emerging from next Huangtou two shê ritual alliance to the Mulan Weir. This area was part of the Huangtou dongbeipu 黄头 东坡铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南厢里 sub-canton. The village was already settled in the Ming, and now has a population of approximately 900 people. Huangtou is part of the Mulan Administrative Village 木兰行政 村. Its temple ritual system is divided into the two shê ritual associations of Yongxing 永兴 and Xingxian 兴贤二社. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林 which is divided into the following seven lineages branches: Jingdou 井兜, Dingcheng 顶埕, Xiacheng 下埕, Cuowei 厝尾, Houpai 后派, Taocuo 桃厝 and Dacuoli 大厝 里. In Ming Hongzhi 4 (1491) the Xinghua Prefect set up a Mingzhuo 鸣琢 牌坊 memorial archway in honor of Lin Zhen 林珍 and Lin Bencong 林本 从 of this lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Fuying tang 福应堂 contains the altar of the Yongxingshê 永兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Huye jiangjun 虎爷将军, Baban 八班, Asan 阿三, and Asi 阿四. 2) Xingxianshê 兴贤社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 3) Yueboting 月波亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Jialan 迦蓝 and Weituo 韦驼. 4) Tiantanfu /天坛府: It is said that this temple was built in the Yuan dynasty and rebuilt in the Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main god is Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 5) Zongfuci 宗福祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Hufa tianzun 护法天尊, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, Xu daren 徐大人, Ada 阿大 and Aer 阿二. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 43 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公 元帅 and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 are taken to practice the Dao 行道 in every household in a procession around the village. At night there is a lantern procession around the village boundaries. On 1/14 the gods of the Fuxingtang 福兴堂 are taken on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongxingshê 永兴社. 4/13: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 10/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxianshê 兴贤社. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Either the village organizes the ritual as a whole, or the individual shê and its community organize the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from the respective community. 
A062 (
V300 Caizhai ershê (Caizhai two shê ritual alliance) 蔡宅二社 Caizhai 蔡宅) 1. Village settlement Caizhai village is located alongside the Lixun Reservoir 沥浔塘, and draws its water from the mountain springs of Fenghuang Mountain 凤凰山. Caizhai village was originally part of the Caizhai Nansikoupu 蔡宅南寺口铺 (police/defense unit). The village had already been settled in the Song, and currently has a population of around 700 people. Caizhai belongs to Tangpo Administrative Village 棠坡行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into two shê ritual alliances on the basis primarily of lineage affiliation. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cai 蔡 and the Shi 施. These were prominent families 望族 living in this village since the Song Dynasty. The Cai are the descendants of Song Prime Minister Cai Xiang, and there is a Cai ancestral hall 蔡氏祠堂 in the village. The Song Military Prefect set up a Zhonghui 忠惠牌坊 memorial archway in commemoration of the Prime Minister. In Ming Chenghua 7 (1471) the Fujian Provincial Governor ordered the Xinghua Prefect to re-erect the memorial archway. The Cai ancestral hall preserves a stele composed in Hongzhi 10 (1497) by Lin Jun 林俊 entitled 忠惠公祠堂祭田记 (Record of the sacrificial lands of the Shrine to Cai Xiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:126, No. 109). Other stone inscriptions about this hall include that composed in Chenghua period (1465–1487) by Chen Jun 陈俊 entitled 蔡氏祠堂记 (Record of Caizhai two shê ritual alliance Cai Ancestral Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:113, No. 101) and another composed in Hongzhi 9 (1496) by Zhou Ying 周瑛 entitled 重修蔡忠惠祠 记 (Record of the restoration of the Shrine to Cai Xiang, the Loyal and Kind) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:125, No. 108). 3. Village temples 1) Longshan shanggong 龙山上宫: The main god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Sanwei zhenjun 三位真 君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Wushi shengfei 吴氏 圣妃, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Linggan zhongshê 灵感中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 3) Yining dongshê 义宁东社 belongs to the Cai 蔡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4) Hongrenju 弘仁居 is linked to the Dayefu 大爷府: The main gods are Huang Daye 黄大爷, Li Daye 李大爷, and Xie Daye 谢大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Shi 施 take the gods of Longshan shanggong 龙山上宫 on a procession within their territory. These events are organized by the Linggan zhongshê 灵感中社. On 1/16 the Cai 蔡 take the gods of Longshan shanggong 龙山上宫 on a procession within their territory. These events are organized by Yining dongshê 义宁东社. On both days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals and funds are collected on a per capita basis within the respective territories. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 4/11: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Linggan zhongshê 灵感中社 is organized by the Shi 施 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 9/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yining dongshê 义宁东社 is organized by the Cai 蔡. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funding is raised on a per capita basis within the sponsoring neighborhood or lineage, or throughout the village as a whole. 
A063 (
V301 Xialin ershê (Xialin two shê ritual alliance) 下林二社 Xialin 下林) 1. Village settlement Xialin village is also called Xialin 霞林 and Xialing 下陵. The village is located along the edges of the Lixun Reservoir 沥浔塘 畔, and mostly draws its water from the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. The area was part of the Xialinpu 下林铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南 厢里 sub-canton. The village was already settled in the Ming, and currently has a population of over 3000 people, who are under the administration of the Xialin Administrative Village 霞林行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis primarily of lineage and residential location into two shê ritual associations, each with their own shê temple (see below): these are the Shangshê 上社 (upper) and the Xiashê 下社 (lower). 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 the Weng 翁 and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 emigrated from Lingchuan fushan 灵川浮 山 and they are related to the Chen of Dongyang 东阳陈. The Lin 林 are members of the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 lineage, and are divided into two lineage branches, namely the Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林. 3. Village temples 1) Longshan zugong 龙山祖宫 contains the altar of the Longshanshê 龙山社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, Fazhu niangniang 法主娘娘, Cigan shengmu 慈感圣母, Tongxian shengfei 通仙圣妃, Lixian shengfei 李贤圣妃, Jingong dajiang 金公大将, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, and Baban 八班. 2) Xinglongshê 兴隆社 belongs to the Lin 林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Zixingfu 紫星府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周 仓, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4) Zixiagong 紫霞宫 belongs to the Weng 翁. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5) Zhongxiatang 中霞堂 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jinjia wudaren 金甲吴大人. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 50 initiates. Xialin two shê ritual alliance 6) Wenchangge 文昌阁: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Daxiong 大兄. 7) Fuqitang 福祗堂: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Xu dage 许大哥 and Su erge 苏二哥. 8) Mingfenggong 明峰宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 9) Qingliantang 青莲堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驼 and Jialan 迦蓝. 10) Deyitang 德义堂: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 11) Guanyinge 观音阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 12) Shuiyuetang 水月堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 13) Wangmudian 王母殿: The main god is Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 14) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 100 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Chen 陈 and the Xia Lin 下林 carry the shêlu 社炉 (incense burner of the shê altar) and the goddess Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to every household to practice the Dao 行道 and then go on a procession within their territory. On 1/15–16 the Weng 翁 and the Shang Lin 上林 carry the shêlu 社炉 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/17 the gods of Longshan zugong 龙山祖宫 and Xinglongshê 兴隆社 are invited to go on a joint procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/17: The first opera is performed in Xinglongshê 興隆社. This event is organized by the Lin 林. 1/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Guanyinge 观音阁. Marionette opera is performed. 2/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinglongshê 兴隆社 is organized by Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 separately. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the whole village. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Weng 翁. 3/29: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 is organized by the whole village. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 (Earth god 土 地公) is organized by the whole village. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Shuiyuetang 水月堂. Marionette opera is performed. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Deyitang 德义堂. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Chen 陈. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Chen 陈. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 separately. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Jinjia Wu daren 金甲吴大人 is organized by the Chen 陈. 10/29: The birthday celebration of Jinggong dajiang 金公大将 is organized by the surname of Lin 林. 11/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Longshanshê 龙山社 is organized by the whole village. Most of these occasions involve performances of opera and Daoist rites. Funding is raised on a per capita and/or voluntary basis within specific neighborhoods, temple communities, or the village as a whole. 
A064 (
V302 Dongpo ershê (Dongpo two shê ritual alliance) 东坡二社 Dongpo 东坡) 1. Village settlement Dongpo is also known as Dongpu 东埔 and Tangpo 棠坡. The village is located along the edges of the Lixun Reservoir 沥浔塘 畔, but most of its water comes from the irrigation channels leading from the Mulan 木兰 Weir. The area was part of the Huangtou Dongpopu 黄头 东坡铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南厢里 sub-canton. The village was already settled in the Ming, and currently the population is around 2700 people. The village is part of the Tangpo Administrative Village 棠坡行政村. The local temple ritual system divides primarily on the basis of residence into two shê ritual associations, called the Upper and Lower Shê 上, 下二社. Each year they select six Fushou 福首 in rotation to manage the ritual activities. 2. Surname groups There are nine surname groups in this mixed surname village. The most historically prominent of them are the Zeng 曾, who produced a Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) in the Ming dynasty, and who were therefore regarded as a prominent lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Lishui shangshê 沥水上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐 天大圣. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfeiDongpo two jing ritual alliance 法主仙妃, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Yixingjun 一星君, Erxingjun 二星君, Sanxingjun 三星君, Li chaoguan 李朝官, and Ertaiye 二太爷. 2) Lishui zugong 沥水祖宫 (Xiashe下社): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chunfu daren 春府大人, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Huangfu shuaiye 黄府帅爷, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Yiwei zhenjun 一位真君, Erwei zhenjun 二位真 君, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, and Fanghuo jiangjun 防火将军. 3) Deyangci 德仰祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Miaoshantang 妙善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Meicheng gong 美城宫: The main god is Cuifu Li dama 崔府李大妈. 6) Zhijiean 志节庵: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驼 and Jialan 迦兰. 7) Wanyongfu 万永府: The main god is Wanfu dama 万府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 the Shangshê 上社 invites the gods of the Lishui shangshê 沥水上社 to go on a procession within its neighborhood. These events are organized by the Shangshê 上社. On 1/14– 15 the Xiashê 下社 invites the gods of the Lishui zugong 沥水祖宫 to go on a procession within its neighborhood. These events are organized by the Xiashê 下社. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sanxingjun 三星君 is organized by the 沥 水上社 Lishui shangshê. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士is organized by Miaoshantang 妙善堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Deyangci 德仰祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xiashê 下社 is organized by Xiashê 下社. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Cuifu Li dama 崔府李大妈 is organized by the village as a whole. 9/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shangshê 上社 is organized by the Shangshê community 上社. On most of these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters (or Three in One scripture masters) are invited to conduct rites. Funding is raised on a per capita basis either throughout the village or in specific shê neighborhoods. Some rites are supported through voluntary contributions. 
A065 Xiahuang qijing (Xiahuang sevenfold ritual alliance) 下黄七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Xiahuang is located north of the Bantouduan of the dikes along the twisting northern bank of the Mulan 木兰 river and gets its water from a series of secondary canals leading off from the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. These villages were originally part of the Xiahuangjing 下黄境 of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Qing the following villages were settled: Xiahuang 下黄, Xiadu 下度, Huangcuodun 黄厝墩, Daiwei 埭尾, Xiecuo 谢厝 (Shecuo 社厝), Xiaocuo 肖厝, Houdun 后墩 and Bantou 坂头. Later, due to a change in the course of the Mulan river, Daiwei 埭尾 village was divided into Upper Shangdaiwei 上埭尾 and (Lower) Xiadaiwei 下埭尾. Currently the area has nine villages, which are managed by the following Administrative Villages: Xiahuang 下 黄, Xiaocuo 肖厝, Bantou 坂头 and Xinxi 新溪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to the original village shê altars into seven ritual territories 七境. The Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫 in Xiahuang 下黄 was orginally the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 and Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君. It is said that formerly during the Yuanxiao festival Huanggong ershi was carried in a procession to all the ritual territories of the region. Currently the collective procession and rites have not yet been restored, and the Zhaoling zonggong has become the village temple of Xiahuang 下黄 village. 
V303 Xiahuang 下黄 1. Village settlement Xiahuang village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Xiahuang is approximately 560 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫 contains the altar of the Yiliang xiabeishê 义良下北社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang Xiahuang sevenfold ritual alliance 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Guansheng dijun 关 圣帝君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Zhoucang jiangjun 周仓将军, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Huban daren 虎班大人. 2) Shanhuahui 山花会: The main god is Xufu daren 徐府大人. 3) Guanyinting 观音亭: The main god Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫 (apart from Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) on go a procession within the village. On 1/18 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V304 Xiadu 下度 1. Village settlement Xiadu village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Xiadu is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups There are five surnames in the village and no one dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yiliang dongshê 义良东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Suitianci 随天祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 40 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Yiliang dongshê 义良东社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V305 Huangcuo 黄厝 1. Village settlement Huangcuo was originally called Huangcuodun 黄厝 墩. Huangcuo village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政 村. The population of Huangcuo is approximately 380 people. 2. Surname groups There are thee surnames and no single dominant surname group. The main surname groups are Lin 林 and Chen 陈. 3. Village temple 1) Zhaoling xingong 昭灵新宫 contains the altar of the Yiliang xiabeishê 义良下北社: This temple was built during the late Qing and was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Chifeng ancha yushi 敕封按察御使, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣 候, Chengong ershi 陈公二使, and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Zhaoling xingong 昭灵新宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Chengong ershi 陈公二使. 5/20: The birthday celebration of Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯. 7/6: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Xiadaiwei 下埭尾 1. Village settlement Xiadaiwei village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village下黄行政村. The population of Xiadaiwei is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Han 韩. 3. Village temples 1) Wenchaogong 汶潮宫 contains the altar of the Yiliang zhongshê 义良中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Yutangmiao 玉堂庙: The main god is Lufu daren 鲁府大人. Secondary gods include Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Jinshanci 金山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4) Jiuxiandong 九仙洞: The main god is Jiuxianshi 九仙师. 5) Qinglanting 清兰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Wenchaogong 汶 潮宫 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occaisons, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V307 Shangdaiwei 上埭尾 1. Village settlement Shangdaiwei village is a part of Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. The population of Shangdaiwei is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Han 韩. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling donggong 昭灵东宫 contains the altar of the Yiliangshê 义良社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. Secondary gods include Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, and Hangong yuanshuai 韩公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Zhaoling donggong 昭灵东宫 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ersh 黄公二使. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V308 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun was originally called Houdun 厚墩. Houdun village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Houdun is approximately 250 people. 2. Surname groups There are four surnames in the village. The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xiachunjing Xixun dongshê 霞春境西浔东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xixun dongshê 西 浔东社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Shêcuo 社厝 1. Village settlement Shêcuo was originally called Xiecuo 谢厝. Shêcuo village is a part of Xiaocuo Administrative Village 肖厝行政村. The population of Shêcuo is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xie 谢. The secondary surname groups are Yi 蚁, Xiao 肖 and Liao 廖. 3. Village temples 1) Yiliang shangbeishê 义良上北社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Jiutian yingyuanfu 九天应元府: The main god is Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 3) Heyitang 合一堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Weituo zhizun 韦驮至尊. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Yiliang shangbeishê 义良上北社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V310 Xiaocuo 肖厝 1. Village settlement Xiaocuo village is a part of Xiaocuo Administrative Village 肖厝行政村. The population of Xiaocuo is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups There are four surnames. The main surname group is the Xiao 肖. The other surname groups are Qi 祁 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Yiliang shangxishê 义良上西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Xinyungong 新云宫: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Cuifu erma 崔府二妈, Cuifu sanma 崔府三妈, Cuifu sima 崔府 四妈, Cuifu dage 崔府大哥, Cuifu erge 崔府二哥, Lufu huangcong 鲁府黄 聪, Lufu baicong 鲁府白聪, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Wuwei daren 五 位大人, Jinye junnü 金叶军女, Huangyan junnan 黄燕军男, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Zhengyici 正一祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Qingyuantang Buddhist hall 清源堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992, P.203) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Yiliang shangxishê 义良上西社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候. 7/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes these rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V311 Bantou 坂头 1. Village settlement Bantou village is a part of Bantou Administrative Village 坂头行政村. The population of Bantou is approximately 3000 people. 2. Surname groups There are three important surnames. The main surname group is the Lin 林. The secondary surname groups are Wu 吴 and Cai 蔡. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qianlin 前林, Houlin 后 林 and Wucai 吴蔡. There are 600 Christians in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Banhu yiliangshê 坂湖义良社 belongs to the Lin 林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Liu daren 刘大人, Cai zhongjun 蔡中军, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Yiliang xinshê 义良新社 belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Cai 蔡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Beixiadong 碧霞洞 is dedicated to Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Caogong daren 曹公大人, Xusanmao jiangjun 许三貌将军, Zhangying jiangjun 张英将军, Liuyi jiangjun 刘义将军, Feicong jiangjun 飞葱将军, Zheng Tianchao jiangjun 郑天 超将军, Lieyi jiangjun 列义将军, Feiying jiangjun 飞英将军, Wang Mao jiangjun 王毛将军, and Baiyundong huangerxiong 白云洞黄二兄. 4) Mingchengtang 明诚堂: The main god is Wufu daren 乌府大人. 5) Zhengyitang 正一堂: The main god is Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wu xiansheng 吴先生, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 64 Three in One initiates in this temple, and that Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is also worshipped. 6) Faxingci 法兴祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 39 initiates. 7) Meiban shenggong 湄坂圣宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天 上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of the Yiliangshê 义 良社 are invited by Qianlin 前林 to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16 the gods of the Yiliangshê 义良社 are invited by Houlin 后林 to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16, the gods of the Yiliang xinshê 义良新社 are invited by the Wu 吴 and the Cai 蔡 to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/4–5: Reception of the gods 接神 back from heaven leads to the performance of the year’s first opera Touchangxi 头场戏. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yiliang xinshê 义良新社 is organized by the surnames of Wu 吴 and Cai 蔡. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Qianlin 前林. 3/11: The birthday celebration of Yanggong daren 杨公大人 is organized by Houlin 后林. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Wu 吴 and Cai 蔡. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qianlin 前林 and Houlin 后林. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is organized by Houlin 后林. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Houlin 后林. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by Qianlin 前林. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Cai Zhongjun 蔡中军. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Wufu daren 乌府大人. 11/15: The birthday celebration of Cao daren 曹大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters or Three in One Scripture Masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/20:Liuqiao sancun (Liuqiao three village ritual alliance) 柳桥三村 The three village alliance of Liuqiao is located along the main channel linking the Mulan Weir to what was once the moat around Putian 莆田 city. This area was part of the Liuting wupu 柳亭吴铺 (police/defense unit) of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Ming the village of Liuqiao 柳 桥村 was already settled, and in the Qing Chendun 陈墩 and Wudun 吴墩 separated off. Nowadays, they are managed by the Dingdun 顶墩 and the Xiahuang Administrative Villages 下黄行政村. In terms of the local temple ritual system, the three village ritual alliance of Liuqiao still maintains a relatively independent ritual system. The Chenghugong 澄湖宫 temple, located in Dingdun 顶墩 village, is the main temple for the three village alliance. Every sixty years, Hangong yuanshua 韩公元帅, the main god of Chenghugong, goes on a procession around the three village alliance. It is said that Hangong yuanshuai’s home is in Xiadaiwei 下埭尾 village, so the procession would also make its way to Xiadaiwei on these occasions. In the Ming, the Xie lineage of Liuqiao 柳桥谢氏 was prominent due to its successful examination graduates. In Ming Hongzhi 3 (1490) the Xinghua Prefect set up a Chongxiao 冲宵 archway in honor of the Xie lineage. 
V312 Liuqiao 柳桥 1. Village settlement Liuqiao village is a part of Dingdun Administrative Village 顶墩行政村. The population of Liuqiao is approximately 600 people, living in 120 households.Liuqiao three village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 徐 and the Ke 柯. The Ke surname group has an ancestral hall 祠堂. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Tang 汤 and Ding 丁. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Xixun xishê 西浔西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Mingshan biedian 名山别殿: The main god is Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帥. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军, and Wei Zhongjun 魏中军. 3) Mingyueci 明月祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. 4) Rongxiju 容膝居: The main god is Luofu daren 罗府大人. Secondary gods include Huode yeye 火德爷爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帥. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Luofu daren 罗府大人, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V313 Dingdun 顶墩 1. Village settlement Dingdun was originally known as Chendun 陈墩. Dingdun natural village is a part of Dingdun Administrative Village 顶墩行 政村. The population of Dingdun is approximately 1400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Chenghugong 澄湖宫: The main temple for Dingdun 顶墩, Liuqiao 柳桥 and Wudun 梧墩. The main god is Hangong yuanshuai 韩公元帅. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正 神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Heilong 黑龙, Baigou 白狗, Dage 大哥 Chen qingfu 陈庆福. 2) Xixun zhongshê 西浔中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Meicheng shengmiao 湄澄圣庙: The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. 4) Yuhuangdian 玉皇殿: The main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang wutian laomu 天上武天老母, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Baogong 包公, Tongguan yuanshuai 统管元帅, and Taishang laojun 太上老君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Chenghugong 澄湖宫 go on a procession within the village. On 2/5 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated by the Chen 陈. On 2/10 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated by the Xu 徐. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village or the surname groups organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The birthday celebration of Hangong yuanshuai 韩公元帅 3/14: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣 母. 4/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君 and Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Baogong 包公. Marionette opera is performed. 12/18: The birthday celebration of Tianshang wutian laomu 天上武天老母. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V314 Wudun 梧墩 1. Village settlement Wudun was originally written as Wudun 吴墩. Wudun village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Wudun is 665 people. 2. Surname groups There are four surnames. The main surname group is the Wu 吴. The secondary surname groups are Lin 林, Chen 陈 and Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Xixun dongshê 西浔东社 was originally built during the Chongzhen period (1628–1644). The temple was rebuilt both during the Republican period and after the founding of PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Nezha 哪吒, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baima jiangjun 白马将军. 2) Mingyantang 名岩堂: The main god is Mingzhu dawang 明珠大王. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qingmian daren 清面大人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Fushoutang 福寿堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Wusan zhenren 巫三真人 and Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xixun dongshê 西 浔东社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes these events, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A067 (
V315 Goutou erjia (Goutou two jia ritual alliance) 沟头二甲 Goutou 沟头) 1. Village settlement The Goutou two jia ritual alliance is located on the Mulan irrigation system along the main channel emerging from the north side of the Mulan Weir. This area was part of the Goutoupu 沟头铺 (police/ defense unit) of Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. The village was settled in the Qing, and now has approximately 3000 people, under the management of the Goutou Administrative Village 沟头行政村. The temple ritual system is Goutou two jia ritual alliance divided according to lineage and residence into the two jia ritual associations of Qianmian 前面 and 后面二甲. 2. Surname groups There are two main surnames, the Cai 蔡, and the Yu 俞. The Cai live in Qianmian 前面 and the Yu live in Houmiang 后面. 3. Village temples 1) Xiama xinggong 下马行宫 contains the altar of the Xiamashê 下马社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xietian jinjia Wu daren 协天金甲吴大人. Secondary gods include Lingyou shengwang 灵佑圣王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dijun 中天帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weixian shengren 威显圣人, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Chen dutong 陈都统, Dashuima 大水 妈, Lisan daren 李三大人, Erxianggong 二相公, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄, and Baban 八班. 2) Qingrongge 青榕阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Wushengdian 武胜殿: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Mingshuigong 明水宫: The main god is Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Mingyuantang 明源堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Zhang zhenren 张真人, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 40 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 the 蔡 Cai of Qianmian 前 面 invite Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/12–14 the Yu of Houmian 后面俞 invite Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 to go on procession within its territory. On 2/8–9 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On all these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village as a whole, or the lineage living in a particular neighborhood of the village, organizes the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis with the respective social/territorial unit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Mazu 妈祖. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the surname of Yu 俞. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the surname of Cai 蔡. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Lingyou shengwang 灵佑圣王. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Xietian jinjia Wu daren 协天金甲吴大人. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On most of the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village, lineage, or neighborhood organizes the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A068 (
V316 Xiaotang ershê (Xiaotang two shê ritual alliance) 筱塘二社 Xiaotang 筱塘) 1. Village settlement Xiaotang was originally called Xiaotang 小塘 or Xitang 洗塘. The village is located outside the Putian city walls near the Yongfeng Reservoir 永丰塘畔. The main source of water is from the springs on Fenghuang mountain 凤凰山. This area was part of the Xitangpu 洗塘 铺 of Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. The village was settled in the Ming, and now has a population of around 2300 people, and is managed by the Xiaotang Administrative Village 筱塘行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê altar associations. A stone inscription composed in the Jiajing period (1522–1566) by Zheng Yue 郑 岳 entitled 增修艾轩林先生墓域碑 (Stele on the expansion and repair of the tomb of Master Lin Aixuan) is about this village (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:173, No. 151). 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Xie 解. There are also the minor surname groups of Lin 林, Chen 陈, Zheng 郑 and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Yingxian zushê 英贤祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊 主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫: The main god is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗 星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, 虎爷 Huye, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4) Hunyundian 混元殿 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 365 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社 are taken on a procession around the village by the Huang 黄. Xiaotang two shê ritual alliance There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/15–16 the gods of Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社 are invited to go on procession by the Xie 解. There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/16 the gods of Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵 总宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated by Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社. Cookies are distributed to families 分丁饼. On 2/1–10, the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated by Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingxian zushê 英贤祖社 is organized. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. The Fushou 福 首 and the main temple each offer two days of opera, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社 is organized. 
A069 (
V317 Nanmen qijing (Nanmen sevenfold ritual alliance) 南门七境 Nanmen 南门) The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanmen is located outside of the Nanmen (South Gate) of the city of Putian 莆田. This area was part of the Huiyipu 惠一铺, the Huiyongpu 惠永铺 (police/defense unit) and the Gouweipu 沟 尾铺 of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Ming, this area already had the settlements of Nanmen waijie 南门外街, Gouxiaxiang 沟下巷 and Houxiang 后巷. The current total population is approximately 5000 people, who are managed by the Nanmen Administrative Village 南门行政村. In the recent years, due to the expansion of the urban area, Nanmen village has been completely modified into an urban neighborhood, and its original settlement structures can no longer be recognized. However, since most of the local temples are either well preserved or have been rebuilt in different locations, local inhabitants can still participate in ritual activities according to the original lishê 里社 and temple 神庙 systems. The temple ritual system is divided into seven jing (ritual territories), including Nanmenjie 南门街, Houxiang 后巷, Goudong 沟东, Gouxia 沟下, Gouwei 沟尾, and Nawei 拿尾. The Nanguan Wudimiao 南关五帝庙 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Each Nanmen sevenfold ritual alliance year on 1/20, Wuhuang dadi is taken on a procession around the seven jing of the ritual alliance. The stele composed in Jiajing 33 (1554) by Fan Mei 范 梅 entitled 忠勇白公祠碑 (Stele on the Shrine of the Loyal and Brave Duke Bai) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:174, No. 152) commemorated another temple in this area. The stele is now preserved at the Putian Museum (on the grounds of the former Dongyuemiao). Village Temples 1) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙: Located on Nanmenjie 南门街, this is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanmen. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Jiucha shengshou 纠察圣侯. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Daxiong 大兄, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Nanguan Wudimiao 南关五帝庙, Tianxianfu 天仙府 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东, and was rebuilt in the recent years. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 3) Nanguan Jiuchamiao 南关纠察庙 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The stone inscription composed by Chen Jin 陈金 in 1642 entitled 创建南关纠察神祠记 (Record of the construction of the South Gate Inspection God Shrine) is about this temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:206, No. 180). 4) Zhenxingtang 真兴堂: The main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 5) Jiushengtang 救生堂: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 6) Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 originally belonged to Nanmenjie 南门街. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baoquan mama 保全妈妈 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 originally belonged to Houxiang 后巷. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Beijidian 北极殿 originally belonged to Houxiang 后巷. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Wanglingguan 王灵官. 9) Shouguang yishê 寿光义社 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Daye 大 爷 and Erye 二爷. 10) Fuxing lishê 福兴里社 originally belonged to Gouxia 沟下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11) Yixing lishê 宜兴里社 originally belonged to Nawei 拿尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 12) Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社 originally belonged to Gouwei 沟尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 13) Wanshouan 万寿庵. The temple preserves an inscribed Buddhist image composed in Zhizheng 6 (1356) entitled 万寿庵佛像题刻 (Inscription on a Buddhist Carving at the Endless Life Nunnery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:70, No. 63). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the return of the gods to Nanguan jiuchamiao 南关纠察庙 is celebrated with the performance of the year’s first opera Touchangxi 头场戏. On 1/15 after each shê 社 has gone on a procession on their own, each shê comes to Jiuchamiao to worship the gods. The processions carry palm sedan chairs which they twirl and spin while racing around several bonfires. This is referred to as Daozongjiao 倒棕 轿 (inverting the palm sedan chairs). These events are organized by each shê separately, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20 Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each shê participates in the procession by displaying their banners 旗牌. Funds are collected on a per capita basis within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On 2/2, a Chunshê 春社 celebration of the spring sacrifice to the gods of the soil and the harvest is organized by the Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 of Houxiang 后巷, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 organized by Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/13: 5/5: 5/13: 5/13: 5/16: 5/28: 6/6: 7/2: 7/23: 8/23: 9/9: 9/26: 10/19: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by Wudimiao of Nanguan 南关五帝庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社. Opera is performed, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanguan 南关, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by both Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街 and Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社, and funding is either raised through voluntary contributions or funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Jiucha shenghou is organized by both Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街 and Jiuchamiao of Nanguan 南关纠察庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社 is organized by the eight masters of the incense burners 炉主 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang yishê 寿光义社 is organized by one master of the incense burners 炉主 and twelve Fushou 福首 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yixing lishê 宜兴里社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxing lishê 福兴里社 is organized by six Fushou 福首 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. (Within Nanmen one could ten or fifteen years ago differentiate the settlements of Houxiang 后巷, Goudong 沟东, Gouxia 沟下, and Gouwei 沟尾: although it is difficult nowadays to find these neighborhoods amidst the new high-rises, the following information is appended in the interest of historical accuracy). 11/4: Houxiang 后巷 1. Village settlement Houxiang village had a population of 600 people. The village was divided into two neighborhoods, called Zhoushê 周社 and Chenshê 陈社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups were the Zhou 周 and the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Yu 余 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village Temples 1) Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真 人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 belongs to the Zhou 周. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zongbentang 宗本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhou 周 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Chen 陈 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. This is organized by the Chen 陈. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/27: the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/4: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 7/16: the celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 10/7: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 of the Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社 is organized by the Zhou 周. Opera is performed. 10/11: the celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. Goudong 沟东 1. Village settlement The population of Goudong village was over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin lineage hall 林氏宗祠. 3. Village Temples 1) Guanan dongshê 灌安东社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Fengxiangci 凤翔祠 was built during the Yongle period (1403–1424). The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods are Huangshi shengfei 黄氏圣妃 and Maozhongjun 毛中军. 3) Donglin shuyuan 东林书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4) Huilange 回澜阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Zhijiean 志节庵 was rebuilt in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:202). 6) Jincian 净慈庵 was rebuilt after the Cultural Revolution (PTZJZCG, 1992:202). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 4/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with opera. Gouxia 沟下 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后 土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Zhonglinci 忠霖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. The village as a whole organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Gouwei 沟尾 1. Village settlement The village had a population of 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Yang 杨, and Peng 彭. The Chen have approximately 1200 people, and belong to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. The Chen have reached their 15th generation. The Chen are divided into five branches, which are the first branch, second branch, third branch, fourth branch and the fifth branch. The first branch has the most people, with more than 700 people. There is a Chen ancestral hall, which is now used as the opera house. There is a lineage genealogy (the same as the one in Kuokou 阔口). 3. Village temples 1) Jumingtang 聚明堂: Main god: Lubu xiangong 鲁部相公, Lubu furen 鲁部夫人. Secondary gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Pufa tianzun 普法天尊, Shangdiye 上帝爷, Wenye 温爷, Xuantan gong 玄 坛公, and Huangxuan yuanshuai 黄玄元帅. 2) Baofu xishê 保福西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Heyitang 合一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guandiye 关帝爷, and Xuantangong 玄坛公. 4) Juxinting 聚新亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/ 14 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Kuangwang yuanshuai 匡王元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of the Baofu xishê 保福西社 are taken on procession. The Chen 陈 organize this event: four hosts and four assistant host positions are rotated into each year according to age. Toufu 头福 rites are held on 2/ 2 and opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公 is held with marionette plays. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with marionette plays. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. The god is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to the village to watch the operas. Four or five Daoist ritual masters conduct a jiao rite 做醮; 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with two days of opera. 10/24: Lanpen 兰盆 rites are held and marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three in One Scripture masters 经师 conduct chaodu 超度 deliverance rites in groups of three. Beimo wushê (Beimo five shê ritual alliance) 北磨五社 The five shê ritual alliance of Beimo is located outside the West Gate 西门 of Putian 莆田 city, and relies on streams from Fenghuang mountain 凤凰 山 for its water supply and irrigation. This area was part of the Beimopu 北磨铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里. In the Qing, the villages of 北磨, Xiamo 下磨, Qianpu 前埔, Xidi 溪底 and Xiaxie 下斜 were already settled in this area. Currently the entire area has been transformed into streets of high-rise shops and apartment buildings, but the original temple ritual system has been remarkably well preserved. This system was originally divided up on the basis of settlements and lineages into five shê ritual associations. The Feiyungong 飞云宫 temple, located in Beimo 北磨, was the originally the main temple of the five shê alliance. It is said that formerly on irregular occasions, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of this temple would be taken on a procession to the five shê, but this collective procession has not yet been revived. 
V318 Beimo 北磨 1. Village settlement The population of Beimo was approximately 500 people, living in 90 households. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. The Li are divided into the Baitang 白塘 Li and the Anxi 安溪 Li, each with their different ancestors. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Zhuang 庄, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Fu 傅, Xie 谢 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Yujian Shuangxingshê 玉涧双兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lisan furen 李三夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Lixiangong 李仙公, Zhoufu daren 周府大人 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Feiyungong 飞云宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Kangfu daren 康府大人 and Baifu daren白府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions During the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, usually on 1/14, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Kangfu daren 康府大人 are carried out on a procession within the village. In the evening there is fire-walking 踏火堆 using palm sedan chairs 棕轿. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Beimo five shê ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Formerly, they had sprit mediums. Now there are village elders 乡老 in this village who organize ritual events. The shêlu 社炉 (keepers of the incense burners of the she-altar) system is being revived. 
V319 Daxi 大溪 1. Village settlement Daxi was originally called Xidi 溪底, and is commonly known as Daluwei 大路尾. The village population was approximately 300 people. 2. Surname Groups The five main surnames are the Guo 郭, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Hu 胡. The Guo is the dominant surname group. The Guo have already been officially recognized as members of the Hui (Muslim) minority. They once had a lineage hall and a lineage genealogy, but both were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxingshê 福新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/10 the incense burners of the Fuxingshê 福新 社香炉 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Way). Opera is performed, and ritual masters conduct rites. The village organizes this event as a whole, and funds are raised in a per capita form. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/18: the celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/23: the celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera and Daoist rites; 7/28: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. Funding for all these events is raised on a per capita basis, and the events are organized by the village as a whole. 
V320 Xiamo 下磨 1. Village settlement The population of Xiamo was over 600 people. Xiaomo was divided into seven different settlement clusters: Jiaoxia 郊下, Shangcuo 上厝, Wengcuo 翁厝, Wucuo 吴厝, Chencuo 陈厝, Xiacuo 下厝 and Huangwei 黄尾. The village preserves a stone inscription composed in Chongzhen 3 (1630) entitled 谕祭潘应龙碑 (Stele on the Imperially ordered sacrifices to Pan Yinglong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:202, No. 177). 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. Other surnames include the Gu 顾, Wu 吴, Zhang 张, Weng 翁, Su 苏, Liu 刘, Lin 林, Li 李 and the Guo 郭. The Huang are most numerous in Jiaoxia 郊下. They moved here from Houtang in Putian city 城里后塘 and are related to the Huang of Qianpu 前埔黄. There was originally a Wu ancestral hall in the village, but it was torn down in 1998, and has not been rebuilt. The ancestral tombs of the Wu were repaired in the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850) . 3. Village temples 1) Guoxianshê 国贤社 was renovated in Guangxu 4 (1878) and rebuilt in 2006. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Li sanfuren 李三夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Wanyundian 万云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods include Jin zhongjun 金中军, Daye 大哥, Erye 二哥, Siye 四爷 and the Baban 八班. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Guoxianshê 国贤 社 are taken on a procession around the village. Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Li sanfuren 李三夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 all join the procession. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Formerly this god would descend to possess spirit mediums. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V321 Qianpu 前埔 1. Village settlement Qianpu village had a population of over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄and the Shen 沈 are the major surnames. There are also minor surnames, including the Lin 林, Chen 陈, Xu 徐, Wu 吴 and Zheng 郑. The Shen originally had an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy, both of which were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. Nowadays the role of xianglao 乡老 (village elder) is filled by the eldest of the middle-aged men of the village. 3. Village temples 1) Qianpujing yinglinggong 前埔境应灵宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. Secondary gods include Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Qianpujing Fuxingshê 前埔境福兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lisan furen 李三夫人 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Xuanxiao processions On 1/9, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Li sanfuren 李三夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 are carried in a procession through the village. At night palm sedan chairs of the gods are raced across bonfires while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3.23: the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/28: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 8/9: the celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held with opera and Daoist rites. Formerly, Huanggong yuanshuai would descend to possess a spirit medium, but it has been many years since that happened. 
V322 Xiaxie 下斜 1. Village settlement The population of Xiaxe is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Longxingshê 隆兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Songfenggong 松峰宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/12–14 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is carried to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/27: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
A071 (
V323 Anfu ershi (Anfu two shê ritual alliance) 安福二社 Anfu 安福) 1. Village settlement The two shê ritual alliance of Anfu is located outside the West Gate 西门 of Putian 莆田 city, which formerly had a high city wall. The two-fold shê of Anfu is located at the Ximendou 西门兜. This area was part of the Wushipu 乌石铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiangli subcanton 东厢里. In the Qing this area already was settled and had streets and a market. The population of Anfu is approximately 900 people, and they are managed by the Anren Residential Committee 安福居委会. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of original settlement into two shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wen 温, Yang 杨, and Ou 欧, Other surnames include the Yu 俞, Wu 吴, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Yaomingmiao 耀明庙 was built during the Southern Song. The temple was renovated both during the early Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The temple was within the Xilaifeng menzhen 西来凤门镇 of Putian city 莆田城. The main gods are Wuhuang dadi 五皇 大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Jiang daren 江大人, and Song daren 宋大人. This temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 33 (1907) entitled 耀明庙建奉香灯斋粮碑记 序引 (Preface and stone inscription on the establishment of a fund (in grain) to pay for incense and lamps used in Fasts (rituals) at the Temple of Shining Radiance) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:358, No. 322). 2) Xingjishê 兴济社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include 关圣帝君. 3) Wufushê 五福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Nanchengong 南宸宫: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Daye 大爷. 5) Baoshuan 宝树庵 was originally built in the Ming Chongzhen period (1611–1644) by Lin Mingji 林铭几. In the Qing dynasty, Peng Peng 彭鹏 studied here, his son Peng Shengtan 彭圣坛 rebuilt this temple in the Kangxi period. In 1915, the temple was rebuilt again, and this was recorded by Jiang Chunlin 江春霖. (PTZJZCG, 1992:200). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xingjishê 兴济社 and Wufushê 五福社 are taken on a procession around the village, practice the Dao to every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Anfu two shê ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/1: The birthday celebration of Jiang daren 江大人. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/21: The birthday celebration of Song daren 宋大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A072 Longqiao qijing (Longqiao sevenfold ritual alliance) 龙桥七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Longqiao is located within the Shihuabei irrigation system along the southwest side of the upper reaches of the Yanshou river 延寿溪 leading up to and including the Shihuabei Weir 使华陂. Water is diverted from the stream at this point south of Shihua weir to the villages of Longqiaopu 龙桥铺 in Dongxiangli 东厢里 sub-canton and Shanglin 上林 village in Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. Water is diverted north of the Shihua Weir to irrigate the lands of the following villages of Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton: Xiazheng 下郑 and Yangxi 洋西 and the villages of Xialiu 下刘, Baidu 白杜, Xiawei 下尾, Qixi 企溪, and Dantou 淡头 of Zunxianli 尊贤里 sub-canton. This area was part of the Longqiaopu 龙桥铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiang sub-canton 东厢里. In the Qing, the following villages were settled in this region: Shang, Xiaqiaotou 上下桥头, Xishan 西山 and Laoyeshu 老叶树. Now this area has been transformed into apartment blocks and vacation villas. Entire villages have been torn down, and entire communities have been resettled into cheap apartment buildings, completely ending village life. Some vestiges remain in the temples and rituals that preserve a memory of the earlier communal spaces and relations. Thus most of the temples from this region have been preserved or moved up onto the mountain side overlooking the Sihuabei Weir where they are arrayed in a row of nine or ten brand new temples. In the local temple ritual system, these temples are arranged into seven autonomous ritual territories 七境. The Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 temple, located in Xiagongli 下宫里 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Wangmu niangniang Longqiao sevenfold ritual alliance 王母娘娘. Each year on lunar 1/20 the gods of Zhaolinggong are taken on a procession to the temples of the sevenfold alliance. These events are organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of each of the seven ritual territories. 
V324 Longqiaojie 龙桥街 1. Village settlement Longqiaojie is also known as Xialongqiao 下龙桥. The population of Longqiaojie is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱 and the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples 1) Gushanggong 古上宫 contains the altar of the Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Dashengmu 大圣庙: owned Xishan 西山 and Shiding 石顶. The main god is Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sandianxia 三殿下, Zhou daren 周大人, Xu daren 徐大人, Xiangong 仙公 and Dage 大哥. 3) Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Huayansi Buddhist temple 华严寺: (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Gushanggong 古上宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on a procession around the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. The celebration of the day of ascension of Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Xiangong 仙公. 12/15: The birthday celebration of Dage 大哥. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/9:Dinglongqiao 顶龙桥 1. Village settlement The population of Dinglongqiao is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Zhulongmiao 珠龙庙 contains the altar of the Xingfu nanshê 兴福南社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Huanxian Buddhist nunnery 欢喜庵 was rebuilt in 1930 (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) . 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Zhulongmiao 珠龙庙 and Xingfu nanshê 兴福南社 are taken on a procession around the village, to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on a procession around the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaoling gong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V326 Xiagongli 下宫里 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 was originally built in the year 998. The temple was recently rebuilt. The main gods are Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君 and Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 2) Dazhongjing Xingfu beishê 大中境兴福北社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Longhuage 龙华阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Xingfu beishê 兴福北社 are taken on a procession around the village, to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 go on a procession around the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is organized by Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 as a whole. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/29: The birthday celebration of Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君 is organized by Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V327 Tudihou 土地后 1. Village settlement Tudihou is also called Tushê 土社. The village population of Tushê is over 500. 2. Surname Groups There is no main surname group. The following surnames live in the village: Huang 黄, Li 李, Zhu 朱 and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Tushê shangjing xingfu beishê 土社上境兴福北社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关 圣帝君, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. 3) Dingyansi Buddhist temple 顶岩寺 (PTZJZCG, 199:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 the gods of the Xingfu beishê 兴福北社 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao), and then they taken on a procession around the village. Daoist ritual masters carry out rites in the temple. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is celebrated, and the gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 temple go on procession around the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are conducted. This procession is organized by the Zhaolinggong and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V328 Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The population of Xishan is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. There is a Zhu lineage ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Zhujing Xingfubeishê 朱境兴福北社 was rebuilt in Xianfeng 8 (1858). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 . Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Xingfu beishê 兴福北社 are taken on a procession around the village, practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: The birthday celebration of Zhou daren 周大人 of Dashengmiao 大圣庙. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 of Dashengmiao. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 12/7: The birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人. 12/8: The birthday celebration of Sandianxia 三殿下 of Dashengmiao 大圣庙. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V329 Shiding 石顶 1. Village settlement The population of Shiding is approximately 437 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 branched off from the Xingfu beishê 兴福北社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 are taken on a procession around the village, to xingdao (practice the Dao) in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Lanterns go on procession within the village. On all these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 10/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V330 Laoyeshu 老叶树 1. Village settlement The population of Laoyeshu is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Xingfu xishê 兴福西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Lishan laomufu 梨山老母府: The main god is Lishan laomu 梨山老母. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. 3) Feiquansi Buddhist temple 飞泉寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of Xingfu xishê 兴福 西社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on a procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaoling gong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Lishan laomu 梨山老母. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A073 Gufeng qijing (Gufeng sevenfold ritual alliance) 古峰七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Gufeng is located within the Shihuabei 使华 陂irrigation system along the Yanshou river up to and including the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂. From this point three major irrigation channels provide water to several sub-cantons to the north of Putian city. This area was part of the Shanglin Xiliupu 上林西刘铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili subcanton 孝义里 and the Yanshou Yangxipu 延寿洋西铺 of the Changtaili sub-canton 常泰里. In the Ming dynasty, the villages of Xiapu 下埔 and Yanshou 延寿 were already settled. In the Qing, the villages of Shanlin 上林 and Xiliu 西刘 separated off, and in the late Qing the villages of Gaojing 高井, Ouxuwei 欧徐尾 and Makeng 马坑 divided off and were settled. The local temple ritual system is divided up on the basis of the independent villages into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The Gufeng Fuyingmiao 古峰孚应庙 temple, located in Xitou 西头 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Wugong shenghong 吴公圣侯 (Wu Xing 吴兴, founder of the Yanshou Weir) and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the villages of the alliance takes turns to go in procession to the Fuyingmiao to present incense or invite the gods back to their villages 进香或请神. Historically, the Xu lineage of the village of Yanshou 延寿徐氏 was renowned as a prominent lineage with many examination graduates. Already in the Northern Song, in Xining 9 (1076), a Zhuangyuan 状元牌坊 (first place) memorial archway was set up in Yanshou village 延寿村 in honor of Xu Duo 徐铎. 
V331 Yanshou 延寿 1. Village settlement Yanshou village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population of Yanshou has a population of approximately 1200 people. Several inscriptions commemorate the Xu Ancestral hall of this village. These are the Zhizheng 6 (1346) 重修景祥徐氏祠记 (RecordGufeng qijing sevenfold ritual alliance of the Repairs to the Jingxiang Xu Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:71, No. 64), the Yongzheng 9 (1731) 重建景祥徐氏祠堂记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Xu lineage Ancestral hall at Jingxiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:226, No. 196), and the Qianlong 26 (1761) 重建景祥徐 氏祠堂记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Jingxiang Xu Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:240, No. 207). 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Yang 杨. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Xie 谢, Gu 顾. There were four prominent families 望族 living here and one Jingbiao paifang 旌表牌坊 was awarded to the village in the Song Dynasty. 3. Village temples 1) Yanshoujing Jianfushê 延寿境建福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Liguige 黎闺阁: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, and Baxian 八仙. 3) Shouxiting 绶溪亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims 23 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, three surname groups including the Lin 林, Gu 顾 and the Xie 谢 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/11 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 1/13 the Huang 黄 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/14 the Ye 叶 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/15 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 go on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/18 the Yang 杨 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Lanfu daren 蓝府大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V332 Ouxuwei 欧徐尾 1. Village settlement Ouxuwei village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population of Ouxuwei is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Jianfushê 建福社 (actually located in Yanshou 延寿): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhanggonggong 张公宫: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Jianfushê 建福 社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 of Yanshou 延寿 village are carried in a procession around Ouxuwei village to practice the Dao 行道 in every Huang household. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of Yanshou 延寿 village. The gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 go on a procession through the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V333 Xiapo 下坡 1. Village settlement Xiapo was originally called Xiapu 下埔. Xiapu village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population of the village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Xiapojing Longxingshê 霞坡境隆兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baifu daren白府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Longxingshê 隆兴社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/13 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Baifu daren 白府大人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V334 Xitou 西头 1. Village settlement Xitou was originally called Xiliu 西刘. Xiliu village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zeng 曾 and the Wu 吴. There was one prominent family 望族 in the village in the Song Dynasty. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangyunmiao 祥云庙 contains the altar of the Xinglong ershê 兴隆二社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya dajiang 白牙大将. 2) Fuyingmiao 孚应庙: The main gods are Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯 and Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文 昌帝君. 3) Chengbenci 承本祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 38 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Fuyingmiao 孚应 庙, Xiangyunmiao 祥云庙 and Xinglong ershê 兴隆二社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/5: The birthday celebration of Puji yiyonghou 普济义勇侯 is organized by the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On most of these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village or a specific temple and its community organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V335 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement Shanglin village is a part of Changlin Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The population is approximately 1800 people, within which there are more than 200 Christians. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Yu 余. 3. Village temples 1) Wanrong zushê 万榕祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Ciyunmiao 慈云庙: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ziyun zumiao 紫云祖庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4) Yufengting 御风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Zongshengci 宗圣祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 22 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Wanrong zushê 万榕祖社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/12 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by Ciyunmiao 慈云庙 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Ciyun miao 慈云庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V336 Gaojing 高井 1. Village settlement Gaojing village is a part of Changlin Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Gaojing village was part of the black banner alliance in the banner alliances of the end of the Qing. 3. Village temples 1) Wanrong xinshê 万榕新社 branched off from the Wanrong zushe万榕祖社 of Shanglin 上林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Gaofenggong 高峰宫 was rebuilt recently. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Wanrong xinshê 万榕新社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A074 Beimen qijing (Beimen sevenfold ritual alliance) 北门七境 The Beimen (North Gate of Putian walled city) is also known as the Gongchenmen Gate 拱辰门, and so this area is commonly referred to as Chenmen 辰 门. The North Gate sevenfold ritual alliance is divided into an Inner sevenfold alliance 内七境 and an Outer sevenfold alliance 外七境. The Longpo zushê 龙坡祖社 temple, located in Yinglong street 英龙街, is the main temple of the Inner and Outer sevenfold alliances. For many years the temple was used as a grain storage facility, but in recent years it has been restored. The main gods are Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 
A074 Beimen qijing sevenfold ritual alliance Beimen inner sevenfold ritual alliance 北门内七境 The inner sevenfold ritual alliance of Beimen 北门内七境 included Chenxiangli 陈巷里, Wumenli 乌门里, Tangxiangli 唐衖里, Yudaili 鱼袋里 and Xiuyilong Street 绣衣衖. This area was part of the Longpopu (police/defense unit) 龙坡铺 of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里. Xiyugong 喜雨宫 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance, and the main gods of the temple are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong yuanshuai 萧公元帅 as well as Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. Currently, the main ritual activity of the inner sevenfold ritual alliance is the birthday celebration of Zhanggong on 7/ 23, during which the local inhabitants give contributions to fund opera performance. The Yuanxiao festival rotates processions among the different surname groups are as follows: the Song surname group 宋 on 1/13; the Lin surname group 林 on 1/14; the Fang surname group 方 on 1/15; the Zheng surname group 郑 on 1/16; and mixed surname group 杂姓 on 1/18. 1/23 is the common Yuanxiao 总元宵. Opera is performed for three days and different surname groups take turns to be in charge. The Ruidian zumiao 瑞云祖庙 located in Touting 头亭 was the main temple of the Outer sevenfold alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year with an intercalary fourth or eighth month, Tiangong yuanshuai would be carried in a procession around the sevenfold alliance. This event was organized by the temple committee of the Ruiyun zumiao. A stone inscription composed in Qianlong 27 (1762) entitled 瑞云庙志德碑 (Stele testifying to the virtues of the Temple of Auspicious Clouds) is about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:241, No. 208). Historically, the Chen lineage of Yimen 义门陈 were a prominent lineage with successful examination candidates. In the Ming, they produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). Beimen outer sevenfold ritual alliance 北门外七境 The outer sevenfold ritual alliance of Beimen includes Chenmen 辰门 (Gegou 隔沟), Douting 头亭 (Dajie 大街), Tiancuo 田厝, Gouxia 沟下, and Tantouqiao 潭头桥, which were all originally part of Gongchenpu (police/ defense unit) of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里, as well as Yimen 义门, Xigeng 西庚, and Xiadai 下戴, which were originally part of Yigengdaipu 义庚戴铺 of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. This North gate is the starting point of the courier road going north from the city of Putian 莆田, and there are pavilions for welcoming officials, such as the head pavilion (Touting 头亭) and the secondary pavilion (Erting 二亭), along the road. Yimen 义门 village originally had the Junlitan 郡厉坛 (Provincial altar for the unrequited dead) and the procession of the City God of Putian 城隍 would visit there every year. In Daoguang 27 (1847) Chen Chiyang 陈池养 composed the 重修郡厉坛记 (Record of the restoration of the Xinghua Commandery altar to the souls of the unrequited dead (dedicated to those who died a violent death, usually in service to the State) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:311, No. 276). 
V337 Gegou 隔沟 1. Village settlement Gegou village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村, Gegou is divided into two neighborhoods: Gegou 隔沟 and Chenmen 辰门. The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xia 夏. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Beiguan wangfu 北关王府: The main gods are Jin daren 金大人, Kong daren 孔大人, and Yu daren 玉大人. Secondary gods include Chen boye 陈伯爷, Lin boye 林伯爷, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Bai jiangjun 白将军, Hong jiangjun 红将军, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Diyian Buddhist nunnery 第一庵 was rebuilt in 1920 (PTZJZCG, 1992:199). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Gegou 隔沟 invites the gods of the Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社 to go on procession within its neighborhood, and to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/17 Chenmen 辰门 invites all the gods of the Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社 to go on procession within its neighborhood and practice the Dao in every household. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire neighborhood organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (Mazu 妈祖). 5/24: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Marionette plays are performed, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, with the exception of the birthday of Fuden zhengshen, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the temple, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V338 Chenmendou 辰门兜 1. Village settlement Chenmendou village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. Chenmendou is divided into four neighborhoods: Dajie 大街, Touting 头亭, Qiancuo 前厝, Tiancuo 田厝. The total population is approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张, the Huang 黄, the Xu 徐, and the Lin 林. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo dongyishê 龙坡东义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司 马圣王, and Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王. Secondary gods include Taibao laoye 太保老爷 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 was built during the early Qing Dynasty. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, and Zhong junye 中军爷. This temple is considered the founding temple of the cult of Tiangong yuanshuai in Putian and Xianyou, and many temples from these two counties come to present incense 进香 during Yuanxiao or on the god’s birthday. 3) Beiguan wudimiao 北关五帝庙 was rebuilt during the late Qing Dynasty. The main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Tiandijun qinshi 天地君亲师. 4) Yingxiangting 迎祥亭: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Wang xiansheng 王先生. 5) Tandu’an 坛渡庵: The main god is Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. 6) Zhanqueting Buddhist pagoda 瞻阙亭 is located in Touting 头亭. This temple was built in the early Ming and restored in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:199). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社 are taken on a procession within the neighborhood to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire four neighborhood alliance organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Dajie 大街 and Touting 头亭. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions among believers everywhere. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Dajie 大街 Qiancuo 前厝 and Tiancuo 田厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The entire four neighborhood alliance organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed. These events are organized by Touting 头亭, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions among worshippers of the god from near and far and from per capita funds collected from local residents. On this day, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On these occasions, opera is performed (unless otherwise specified) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V339 Gouxia 沟下 1. Village settlement Gouxia village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后 土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Zhonglinci 忠霖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. The village as a whole organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V340 Yimen 义门 1. Village settlement Yimen village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The entire village has a population of approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Wang 王, Li 李, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. During the Ming Dynasty, there were one Jinshi 进士 and six Juren 举人. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo yishê 龙坡义社 is within the Taishimiao 太师庙: The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhang boye 张伯爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, Meng jiangjun 孟将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Jiao jiangjun 焦将军, and Yue jiangjun 岳将军. 2) Guanyinge 观音阁 (Junlitan 郡厉坛): The main god is Guanyin 观音. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Longpo yishê 龙坡 义社 are taken on a procession around the village and practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated and opera is performed. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/2: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Universal Deliverance Rituals 普度仪式: 7/15: 中元普度 Middle prime Universal Deliverance rites are performed at the Junlitan 郡厉坛. Opera is performed. 10/1: 下元普度 Lower prime Universal Deliverance rites are performed at the Junlitan 郡厉坛. Opera is performed. 
V341 Xigeng 西庚 1. Village settlement Xigeng is also know as Xigeng 西耕. The population is over 1000 people. Xigeng village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village (拱辰行政村). Xigeng is divided into three neighborhoods: Xishang 西上, Xizhong 西中, Xixia 西下. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Dong 董, Li 李, Chen 陈, and Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo xijing Xiandengshê 龙坡西境贤登社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Longpo xijing Hemeishê 龙坡西境和美社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and Yangshi shengfei 杨氏圣妃. 3) Longpo xijing Yiningshê 龙坡西境义宁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sansheng zhenjun 三圣 真君. Secondary gods include Huanggong dashi 黄公大使, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. 4) Xixinggong 西行宫: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Mayuanshuai 马元帅, and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 5) Weilinggong 威灵宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wang daren 王大人. 6) Baimagong 白马宫: The main god is Wen daren 温大人. Secondary gods include Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Xu jiangjun 徐将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, a common Yuanxiao procession is held. The gods of all the temples go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13 the gods of Hemeishê 和美社 go on procession within the Xixia 西下 neighborhood. On 1/15 the gods of Yiningshê 义宁社 go on procession within the Xishang 西上 neighborhood. On 1/16 the gods of Xiandengshê 贤登社 go on procession within the Xizhong 西中 neighborhood. In each case, these events are organized by the neighborhood itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/29: The birthday celebration of Wen daren 温大人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yiningshê 义宁社 is organized by the Xishang 西 上 neighborhood. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xiandengshê 贤登社 is organized by the Xizhong 西中 neighborhood. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. 11/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Hemeishê 和美社 is organized by the Xixia 西下 neighborhood. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis either in the sponsoring neighborhood, or throughout the village. 
V342 Xiadai 下戴 1. Village settlement Xiadai village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Huang 黄, Peng 彭, Tang 唐, and Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo dongshê 龙坡东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙 将军. 2) Xiadaisi Buddhist temple 下戴寺 was rebuilt before 1949 by Buddist monk Yongjing 永静 (PTZJZCG, 1992:199). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Longpo dongshê 龙坡东社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. On 2/1 Toufu 头 福 rites are held. There are races across bonfires 踏火堆 while carrying the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/23: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 8/2: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V343 Tantouqiao 潭头桥 1. Village settlement Tantouqiao village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The population is approximately 150 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Ye 叶 and the Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo tongyishê 龙坡通义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Huye 虎爷, and Zhong jun 中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Tongyishê 通义社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 rites are held with Daoist ritual. The fushou 福首 take the incense burner of the shê altar 社炉 on procession within the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/13: The birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/2: The birthday of Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 12/2: The birthday of Chen Zhongjun 陈中军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A075 Dongmen qijing (Dongmen sevenfold ritual alliance) 东门七境 The Dongmen (East Gate) of the city of Putian 莆田 is also known as Qingmen 青门. The sevenfold ritual alliance of Dongmen is located outside the Dongmen (East Gate) qijing sevenfold ritual alliance East Gate of the walled city. Dongmen includes areas which were originally part of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里: Dongmenwai 东门外, Sifangjie 四房街, Liantang 莲塘 of the Qingmenpu 青门铺, Meihuating 梅花亭 and Xishê 西社 of the Ningyipu 宁义铺, Fangwei 枋尾 of the Fengmeipu 丰美 铺, as well as Xiadun下墩 and Tianzhuang 田庄 of the Xiadunpu 下墩铺. Nowadays, the villages in this area have been torn down to make way for new apartment blocks and shopping streets. Nonetheless, the original temples of the area have been preserved or moved to new locations and rebuilt. The local temple ritual system is still divided up according to the original sevenfold ritual alliance. The main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Dongmen is the Qingmengong 青门宫 temple, also known as Dongguan taishimiao 东关太 师庙, reputed to be the most efficacious temple in the city of Putian 莆城第 一显赫庙宇. Every year, during the first half of the 10th lunar month, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, the main god of Qingmengong 青门宫, is carried in a procession to the temples of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Historically, in this area the Chen 陈 lineage of Dongmenwai was a prominent lineage known for its successful examination candidates. In the Ming they produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). 
V344 Dongmendou 东门兜 1. Village settlement Dongmendou village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. Dongmendou is divided into two neighborhoods: Dongmenwai 东门外 and Sifangjie 四房街. Both neighborhoods have a total population of approximately 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Weng 翁, Xiao 肖, and Xu 徐. In this village, there were one Jinshi 进士, six Juren 举人 and one Jingbiao paifang 旌表牌坊 awarded during the Ming Dynasty. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangheshê 祥和社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Qingmengong 青门宫 (Dongguan taishimiao 东关太师庙): The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Yangmen bajiang 杨门八将, and Zhongjun 中军. 3) Hulanci 壶兰祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18, the incense burner of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 are carried in a procession within the village. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Marionette opera is performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V345 Meihuating 梅花亭 1. Village settlement Meihuating village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. Meihuating is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangjie 上街 and Xiajie 下街. The total population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Xu 许 and the Guo 郭. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Baoning dongshê 保宁东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣候, and Wenwu liesheng文武列圣. 2) Yangzhici 仰止祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 3) Puzhaosi 普照寺: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 Shangjie 上街 and Xiajie 下街 take turns in inviting the gods of Baoning dongshê 保宁东社 to go on procession within their neighborhoods, and to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed at the same time. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual on 1/17. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On these occasions, the entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed, as well as Daoist rites. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/19: The birthday celebration of the of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. On all these occasions, the village organizes the ritual event as a whole and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V346 Fengmei 丰美 1. Village settlement Fengmei village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. The population of Fengmei is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Qi 祁. Other surnames include the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu zushê 集福祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Ta’an 塔庵: The main god is Daxiong 大兄. 3) Hongrenci 弘仁祠: The main gods are Li daye 李大爷, Huang daye 黄大 爷 and Xie daye 谢大爷. 4) Baihuatang 百华堂: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. 5) Cuiting Buddhist pagoda 崔亭 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Lin surname group 林 invites the gods of the Jifu zushê 集福祖社 to go on procession to every household of its surname. These events are organized by the Lin surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis amongst the Lin. On 1/17 the Qi surname group 祁 invites the gods of the Jifu zushê 集福祖社 to go on procession to every household of its surname. These events are organized by the Qi surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis amongst the Qi. On 2/4 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2/22: The birthday celebration of Hongrenci San daye 弘仁祠三大爷. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/4: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/24: The birthday celebration of Hongrenci San daye 弘仁祠三大爷. On each of these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V347 Xishê 西社 1. Village settlement Xishê village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. The population of Xishê is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Yihai xishê 义海西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Hunyuandian 混元殿 was built in Guangxu 17 (1891) and rebuilt in 1925 and 1965. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liufu daren 刘府大人, and Badajiang 八大将. 3) Fulongan 福隆庵 was built during the Yongzheng period (1723–1735). It is claimed that this temple branched off from the Southern Shaolin Monastery 南少林寺下院. The main god is Rulaifo 如来佛. 4) Qilongan 祗隆庵 was built in 1915 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14 the incense burners of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 are taken on a procession around every household. On the same day, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V348 Liantang 莲塘 1. Village settlement Liangtang village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 莲塘行政村. Liantang is divided into two neighborhoods: Liantang 莲塘 and Doumentou 陡门头. The total population is 222 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Ye 叶, Xu 许, Song 宋, and Ke 柯. There is no main surname group. There is a Paifang 牌坊 from the Ming Dynasty. 3. Village Temples 1) Dongguan wudimiao 东关五帝庙 was rebuilt in Jiaqing 22 (1817). The main god are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 2) Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社, Tianxianfu 天仙府: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Li tianwang 李天王, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Xu daren 徐大人 and Da wangye 大王爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Liantang neighborhood 莲塘 take the incense burners of the gods of the Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 on a procession around every household, and a lantern procession is held at night. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. These events are organized by each neighborhood, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/18 Doumentou 陡门头 neighborhood invites the incense burners of the gods of Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 to go on procession to every household. A lantern procession is held at night. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. These events are organized by the neighborhood, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/24 the two neighborhoods together carry the incenser burners of the gods of Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes these ritual-events and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V349 Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement Xiadun village is a part of Kuokou Administrative Village 阔口行政村. Xiadun is divided into two neighborhoods: Xiadun 下墩 and Tianzhuang 田庄. The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cai 蔡 and the Ye 叶. 3. Village temples 1) Baofu zushê 保福祖社 was originally built in Ming Zhengde 12 (1517) and was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 3 (1799) and again in 1994. The temple belongs to the Ye lineage. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯, and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 2) Baofu shangshê 保福上社 was built in Qianlong 6 (1741). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. This temple belongs to the Cai 蔡 lineage. 3) Zifenggong 紫峰宫 is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Guanping 关平, Zhoucang 周仓 and Wengong yuanshuai 温 公元帅. 4) Tongyingtang 通应堂 formerly belonged to a twelve family alliance. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jalan 伽蓝. 5) Feiyundian 飞云殿: The main god is Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Secondary gods include Pengfu daren 彭府大人, Lifu daren 李府大人, and Daxiong 大兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Ye 叶 invites the gods of Baofu shangshê 保福上社 to go on procession to every household of its surname within the village. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by the Ye, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/12 the Cai 蔡 invites the gods of Baofu shangshê 保福上社 to go on procession to every household of its surname within the village. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by the Cai, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On both occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/4: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by the village. 5/25: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by the village. 6/19 and 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with marionette opera. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofu zushê 保福祖社 is organized by the Cai 蔡. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯 is organized by the village. 10/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofu shangshê 保福上社 is organized by the Ye 叶. 11/3: The birthday celebration of Pengfu daren 彭府大人 is organized by the Ye 叶. 11/4: The birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人 is organized by the Ye 叶. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village or the surname group organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A076 Baihu qijing (Baihu Sevenfold ritual alliance) 白湖七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Baihu is located in the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system of the northern irrigated plain, and includes Kuokou 阔口 and Gushan 古山 villages. The area was part of the Yuhu Jinfupu 玉湖进福铺 (police/defense unit) of Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里 and the Longjin gushanpu 龙津古山铺 of the Hugongli sub-canton 胡公里. This area had the village of Baihushi 白湖市 in the Song, and the market streets of Kuokou 阔口街 in the Ming. In the late Song and early to mid-Ming, Kuokou village was near the site of the closest harbor for boats coming up the mouth of the Mulan river 木兰溪 to deliver goods to Putian city. In the Qing, due to a change in the course of the Mulan river, the two villages of Kuokou and Gushan were divided up, the former in the northern irrigated plain, and the latter now part of the southern irrigated plain. The local temple ritual system is divided into seven ritual territories. Baihu qijing sevenfold ritual alliance In the past five years, these villages have been torn down to make way for new highways around Putian 莆田 city, sometimes without adequate compensation to the villagers. The temples have been moved into a suburb on the outskirts of the expanding city of Putian, surrounded on all sides by rows of apartment buildings. There are now six newly built temples standing in a row. These village temples are often the last building left standing when villages are razed, as negotiations continue to the last minute regarding the compensation for the temple and the new site of the moved temple. The main temple is the Feilaige 飞来阁 temple, originally located in Kuokou 阔口 village. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the gods of the Feilaige are carried in a procession to the temples of the sevenfold alliance. This area was the home in the Southern Song of the Grand Councilor 丞相 Chen Junqing 陈俊卿 and Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Currently, a Chen lineage genealogy 陈氏族谱 has been preserved, along with a Yuhu zuci 玉湖祖 祠 ancestral hall and a Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙. In the Southern Song in Shaoxing 8 (1138) a Yakui (Second place) 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Chen Junqing and a Zhuangyuan (First place) 状元 牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Chen Wenlong in the Southern Song Xianchun period (1265–1274). 
V350 Kuokou 阔口 1. Village settlement Kuokou village is a part of Kuokou Administrative Village 阔口行政村. Kuokou is divided into six neighborhoods: Yuqiao 玉桥, Qiaotou 桥头, Pubian 浦边, Houmen 后门, Kuowei 阔尾, and Qiaodong 桥东. The combined population of all these settlements is approximately 1800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈, with 1500 people. Other surnames include the Xu 徐, Fang 方, and Zheng 郑. There is a genealogy of the Chen surname group 陈氏族谱, a Chen lineage ancestral hall called the Yuhu zuci 玉湖祖祠 and a Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙. There was the market at Baihu 白湖市 already in the Song, and four prominent families 望族 from the village were noted in the Song Dynasty. This village is also the hometown of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 and Chen Zan 陈瓉, national heroes who led the resistance against the invasion of the Yuan Mongols 抗元英雄. 3. Village temples 1) Feilaige 飞来阁: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Kuoweishê 阔尾社, Sangongmiao 三公庙: The main gods are imperial court granted 敕封 Enzhu sangong 恩主三公 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Zhu daren 朱大人 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Qiaotou Xiningshê 桥头熙宁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Pubian Yuhu zushê 浦边玉湖祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5) Houmen yuhu shangshê 后门玉湖上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Qiaodong jiuchamiao 桥东纠察庙: The main gods are Enzhu sangong 恩主三公, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Jiucha yuanshuai 纠察元帅 and Hei jiangjun 黑将军. 7) Yuqiao xinshê 玉桥新社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Yuhu shuyuan 玉湖书院: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 9) Weixiantan 威显坛: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 10) Damafu 大妈府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 11) Yuhudong 玉湖洞: The main god is Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 12) Baihu Chongjimiao 白湖崇济庙: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 13) Qingyuantang Buddhist hall 清源堂 was built before 1949 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Yuqiao xinshê 玉 桥新社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/12 the gods of the Qiaotou Xiningshê 桥头熙宁社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/13 the gods of the Pubian Yuhu zushê 浦边玉湖祖社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/14 the gods of Houmen Yuhu shangshê 后门玉湖上社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/15, the gods of Kuowei Sangongmiao 阔尾三公庙 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/16 the gods of the Qiaodong Jiuchamiao 桥东纠察庙 go on procession within its territory. On 1/18, a joint Yuanxiao festival is held by the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. The gods of the Feilaige 飞来阁 go on procession both within the village and around the sevenfold ritual alliance of Gushan 古山. These events are organized by the Feilaige. On each of these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds for these events are raised on a per capita basis or a voluntary basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yuqiao xinshê 玉桥新社 is organized by the shê temple and its community. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. When the Mazu statue from the Wenfenggong 文峰宫 in Putian city goes on a pilgrimage to present incense 进香 to the Meizhou Zumiao 湄洲祖庙, the goddess rests for the night at the Feilaige 飞来阁. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Pubian 浦边. 7/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Qiaotou Xiningshê 桥头熙宁社 is organized by the shê. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the Yuhudong 玉湖洞. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Houmen Yuhu shangshê 后门玉湖上社 is organized by the shê. 8/2: The birthday celebration of Kuowei Enzhu sangong 阔尾恩主三公 is organized by the Sangongmiao 三公庙 temple. 9/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Qiaodong Jiuchamiao 桥东纠察庙 is organized by the shê as a whole. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Pubian Yuhu zushê 浦边玉湖祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funding is raised on a per capita basis by the village or the temple and its community as a whole. 
V351 Gushan 古山 1. Village settlement Gushan village is a part of Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. The population of Gushan is approximately 1400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The Chen came from Yiban 驿坂 in Huian 惠安. Their ancestral tomb 始祖墓 is in front of the Guanghuasi 广化寺 in the former Huangcuoli 黄厝里 subcanton. 3. Village temples 1) Sanshan zujishê 三山祖迹社: The main god is Enzhu sangong 恩主三公. 2) Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙: also called Chen Wenlong jinianguan 陈文 龙纪念馆. The main god is Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Secondary gods include Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷, Huguo taifuren 护国太夫人 and Suijia dutong 随驾都统. 3) Jingxin shuyuan 镜心书院: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Sanshan zujishê 三山祖迹社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. On 1/18 the gods of Feilaige 飞来阁 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by Feilaige, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/25: The birthday celebration of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is organized by Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Enzhu sangong 恩主三公 of Sanshan zujishê 三山祖迹社. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Dage 大哥. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A077 Lipu sishê (Lipu Four shê ritual alliance) 荔浦 四社 The four shê ritual alliance of Lipu is located on the northern banks of the Mulan river at the meeting point between the Mulanbei 木兰陂 irrigation system and the Yanshoubei 延寿陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Lupupu (police/defense unit) 芦浦铺 of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. In the Ming, the village of Lupu 芦浦村 was already settled, and in the late Qing, the village of Jiaoxi 郊西 separated off. Nowadays the villages of this area are managed by the Lipu Administrative Village 荔浦行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into the four shê (ritual associations) of Hougong 后龚, Qianpu 前浦. Sheqian 社前 and Jiaoxi 郊西四社, which are commonly referred to as the Lipu sigan 荔浦四干”. The Lingxing zushê 灵兴祖社 temple, located in Sheqian 社前 village, is the main temple of the four shê alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year on lunar 2/2 the Toufu “头福” rites are celebrated, and the Zunzhu mingwang 四社尊主明王 Lipu Four shê ritual alliance and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê go on a joint procession around the area. Historically, the Chen 陈 lineage of Lipu in this area were a prominent lineage with successful examination graduates. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460) the Fujian Provincial Administration Commissioner set up a Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduate) 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Chen lineage. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four shê alliance of Lipu was part of the red banner alliance. 
V352 Hougong 后龚 1. Village settlement The population of Hougong is approximately 400. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Gong 龚. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiang qianjing Longxingshê 芦江前境隆兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 人. Secondary gods include Qian siniang 钱四娘 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. The temple was rebuilt in the Qing Xianfeng 1 (1851). 2) Chaoyanggong 朝阳宫: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wulu shenghou 五路圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu dashi 柳大使, and Jin dashi 金大使. 3) Yujiang shuyuan 玉江书院: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Longxingshê 隆兴社 and Chaoyanggong 朝阳宫 go on procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê alliance fold go on procession together. These events are organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Qianpu 前浦 1. Village settlement The population of Qianpu is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiangjing Yuefengshê 鲁江境月峰社 is linked to the Beijidian 北极殿: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wang lingguan 王灵官. 2) Babaomiao 八宝庙: The main god is Baima jiangjuan 白马将军爷 (Babaoye 八宝). Secondary gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Yuxiangci 玉香祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 52 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/8: The gods of Yuefengshê 月峰社 and Beijidian 北极殿 go on procession within the village, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four-shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 11/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These ritual-events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V354 Sheqian 社前 1. Village settlement The population of Sheqian is approximately 306 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Chen 陈, and Peng 彭. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiang zhongjing Lingxing zushê 芦江中境灵兴 祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 2) Baoxinggong 保兴宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ping’anci 平安祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Lingxing zushê 灵兴祖社 go on procession within the territory, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/10: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These ritual-events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V355 Jiaoxi 郊西 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiangxijing Guangzhengshê 庐江西境广正社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Linshui furen 临水夫人 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Mingsanci 明三祠 was built during the late Qing. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Chen hufa 陈护法, and Yuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the gods of Guangzhengshê 广正社 go on procession within its territory, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Mingsanci 明三祠. 2/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by Mingsanci 明三祠. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole at the shê temple, or by the Three in One initiates at their temple, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A078 Xinjiao sishê (Xinjiao four shê ritual alliance) 莘郊四社 Xinjiao was originally called Xingou 新沟 (New Canal), and is located north of the Mulan river where the Mulan and Yanshou 延寿 irrigation systems merge. This area was part of the Xingou Huangdunpu (police/defense unit) 新沟黄墩铺 of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Xingou 新沟 and Huangdun 黄墩. In the late Qing the region divided into the four villages of Huangdun 黄墩, Jiaodong 郊东, Heshê 何社 and Zhongshê 中社. The temple ritual network is divided by settlements into four shê ritual units. Currently these villages are managed by the Xinjiao Administrative Village 莘郊行政村 The Longxianmiao 龙显庙 temple, located in Jiaodong 郊东 village, is the main temple for the four shê ritual alliance. The main god worshipped in the temple is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Every three years, the gods of Longxianmiao are taken on a procession to each of the villages of the alliance, as well as to neighboring villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê alliance of Xinjiao was part of the black banner alliance of villages. 
V356 Huangdun 黄墩 1. Village settlement The population of Huangdun is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Qian 钱, Chen 陈, Zheng 郑 and Guo 郭. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 branched off from Heshê 何社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Zhongtian yuanshuai 中天元帅. 2) Mingdetang 明德堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xinjiao four shê ritual alliance Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 go on a procession within the village, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/4 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 of Jiaodong 郊东 are invited go on a procession within Huangdun. During every year with an intercalary second month, on 2/ 2, the gods of the Longxianmiao 龙显庙 go on a procession around the entire four shê ritual alliance. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dadi 中天大帝. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 
V357 Jiaodong 郊东 1. Village settlement The population of Jiaodong is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Fu 傅, Hu 胡, and Yang 杨. 3. Village temples 1) Longtangshê 龙塘社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 2) Longxianmiao 龙显庙: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 and Tie daren 铁大人. This is the main temple of the four shê alliance of Xinjiao. 3) Xutanggong 徐堂宫: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Zhang daren 张大人 and Zuoyou jiangjun 左右将军. 4) Longdeci 龙德祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 35 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of the Longtangshê 龙塘社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of the Longxianmiao 龙显庙 are invited to go on a procession to Jiaodong village. Every year with an intercalary second month, on 2/2, the gods of Longxianmiao 龙显 庙 go on a procession throughout the entire four shê ritual alliance. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. This event is organized by Jiaodong, Zhongshê 中社 and Heshê 何社 in rotation. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. 5/5 or 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by Jiaodong and Zhongshê 中社 in rotation. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V358 Zhongshê 中社 1. Village settlement The population of Zhongshê is approximately 675 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang zhongshê 龙塘中社 (the altar is located in the Longtangshê 龙塘社 of Jiaodong village 郊东): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingangong 兴安宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅, Ougong yuanshuai 欧公元帅, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 50 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Longtangshê 龙塘社 and Xingangong 兴安宫 go on procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. The gods of Longxian miao 龙显庙 are invited to go on a procession within Zhongshê 中社. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized in turns with Jiaodong 郊东 and Heshê 何社. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/5 and 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in turns with Jiaodong 郊东 and Heshê 何社. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V359 Heshê 何社 1. Village settlement The population of Heshê is approximately 975 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the He 何and the 朱. Other surnames include the Xiao 肖, Zheng 郑, and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 branched off from Huangdun 黄墩 in Guangxu 17 (1891). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Lixiangci 荔香祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 30 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/1, the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to go on a procession within the territory. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized in turn with Jiaodong 郊东 and Zhongshê 中社. 7/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A079 Punan sicun (Punan four village ritual alliance) 浦南四村 The four village ritual alliance of Punan is located along the Southern Main Channel of the Yanshoubei irrigation system 延寿陂南大沟, and includes the site of the Lupu sluice-gate 芦浦斗门. This area was part of the Douqian yulinpu 陡前俞林铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延 兴里. In the Ming, there was the village of Louqian 楼前 in this area. Currently there are the four villages of Punan 浦南, Dongzhou 东洲, Dongjiao 东郊, Doumentou 陡门头. All these villages are managed by the Doumen Administrative Village 陡门行政村. The Feiyungong 飞云宫 temple, located in Punan 浦南 village, is the main temple for the four village ritual alliance. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Each year on 2/2, during the celebration of Toufu 头福, the gods of Feiyungong temple are taken on a procession to all the villages of the alliance. The Zhengxingtang 正兴堂 temple of Doumentou 陡门头 village is a Three in One temple 教祠 built collaboratively by the four village ritual alliance. 
V360 Punan 浦南 1. Village settlement The population of Punan is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Xie 谢 and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Punanjing Wanfushê 浦南境万福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Feiyungong 飞云宫: The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Yangjiuniang 杨九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of the Wanfushê 万福社 go on procession within the territory and practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four village ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these days, opera is performed and Three in one Scripture Masters are invited to conduct rituals. Punan four village ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V361 Dongzhou 东洲 1. Village settlement The population of Dongzhou is approximately 320 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. There is an Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 3. Village temples Dongzhoujing Anjishê 东洲境安吉社 has now combined with Doumentou 陡门头 village, and was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of Anjishê 安吉社 go on a procession within its territory and practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by Dongzhou village together with Doumentou village, and funds are collected from residents of both villages on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Feiyun gong go on procession within the four village ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the four-village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Anjishê 安吉社 and the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V362 Dongjiao 东郊 1. Village settlement The population of Dongjiao village is approximately 250 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林and the Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Dongjiaojing Anjishê 东郊境安吉社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 2) Xinglanting 兴澜亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the gods of Anjishê 安吉社 go on procession through the village and practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Feiyun gong 飞云宫 go on procession within the four-village ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the four-village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxing tang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxing tang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Anjishê 安吉社 and the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxing tang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V363 Doumentou 陡门头 1. Village settlement The population of Dongmendou is approximately 158 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Su 苏. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Lin 林 and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Doumenjing Anjishê 陡门境安吉社 (combined with Dongzhou 东洲): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhengxingtang 正兴堂 was built during the early Qing Dynasty, and renovated after the founding of the PRC. The temple was originally located in a Buddhist temple called Chaozongan 朝宗庵, but was later built as an independent temple by the four-village alliance. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the gods of Anjishê 安吉社 go on procession within the village. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Feiyungong飞云宫 go on a procession around the four-village ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the four-village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Anjishê 安吉社 and the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A080 Caozhu erjia (Caojia two jia ritual alliance) 草渚二甲Caozhu 草渚 1. Village settlement Caozhu erjia is located along the Southern main channel of the Yanshoubei 延寿陂南大沟 irrigation system Caozhu was originally called Yudai 俞埭 and belonged to the Douqian yulinpu 陡前俞 林铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. The village was settled during the Qing dynasty. The temple ritual system is divided into Qianjia 前甲 and Houjia 后甲 neighborhood ritual associations. Caozhu is now a part of the Doumen Administrative Village 陡门行政村. The population of the village is approximately 1000 people. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Caojia ritual alliance was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in the village is the Chen 陈. The other surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Gaoyishê 高义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Wugu furen 五谷夫人 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 2) Xingshenggong 兴盛宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观 音大士, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Kui Zhongjun 魁中军. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元 帅, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Caozhu two jia ritual alliance 4) Ciyinting 慈荫亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Chensheng faye 陈胜法爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 is invited to practice the Dao 道 and to take a procession around the village. This is organized by Qiancao 前草 and Houcao 后草 separately. Between 1/10–15, on a day determined by divination, the incense burners of the Gaoyishê 高义社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20, on the last night of the Yuanxiao festival for this village, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Xingshenggong 兴盛宫 is taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2, the rites of Toufu (beginning good fortune) are held. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with marionette opera. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A081 Nanji Sevenfold ritual alliance 南箕七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanji includes Nanji 南箕 (Shangdun 上墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houdun 后墩, Haiwei 海尾), Zhudun 朱墩 (Chenzhuang 陈庄, Waiyang 外洋), Jiangbian 江边, Qianbudun 前布墩, Houbudun 后布 墩. This area was originally part of the Nanji pu (police/defense unit) 南箕 铺 of Dongpeng 东彭, and the Yulinpu 俞林铺 of Douqian 陡前, both of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. This ritual alliance is located along the Southern main channel of the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂南大沟 irrigation system. In the Ming, the village of Nanji 南箕 was settled in this area. During the Qing, the villages of Qiandun 前墩, Fudun 傅墩, Zhudun 朱墩, Jiangbian 江边, Chenzhuang 陈庄 and Waiyang 外洋 separated off. Currently, Nanji is part of the Zhangzhen Administrative Village 张镇行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into seven independent ritual associations. Nanji sevenfold ritual alliance The Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 of Nanji 南箕 and the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Zhudun朱墩are the main temples for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god of Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙主神 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. In years with an intercalary 9th lunar month, Tianshang shengmu is carried in a procession around the ritual alliance. The main god of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Formerly on lunar 8/1 Fazhu xianfei was carried in a procession around the alliance, but this ritual has not yet been revived. In the Ming dynasty, the Chen were a prominent lineage with successful examination graduates. In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi paifang 进士牌坊 in honor of one Chen Shan 陈善. 
V365 Nanji 南箕 1. Village settlement Nanji village is divided into four neighborhoods: Shangdun 上墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houdun 后墩, Haiwei 海尾. Their total population is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Peng 彭 and the Guo 郭. Secondary surname groups are Lin 林 and Zeng 曾. There was a Juren 举人 in the Ming Dynasty from this village and a paifang was erected. 3. Village temples 1) Nanjijing Zhangzhenshê 南箕境张镇社: The main gods are Chifeng Zunzhu mingwang 敕封尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. The secondary god is Wugu furen 五谷夫人. 2) Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 was built during the Yuan Dade period (1297– 1307). The temple was renovated both during the late Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Yangong daren 晏公大人, Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 3) Haiwei Zhangzhenshê 海尾张镇社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Peng 彭 of Qiandun 前墩 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Peng 彭 of Zhongdun 中敦 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within that territory. On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Peng 彭 of Houdun 后墩 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Guo 郭 of Haiwei 海尾 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within Haiwei’s territory. On 1/15 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is invited to Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 and taken on a procession around the village with lantern processions at night. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Each year with an intercalary month, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is invited go on a procession throughout the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funds are collected on a per capita basis from the respective neighborhoods or lineages, or from the village as a whole. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. Tianshang shengmu is invited to watch opera by Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩 villages in rotation. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Haiwei 海尾 Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is organized by the Guo 郭. 8/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Nanji Zhangzhenshê 南箕张镇社 is organized by the Peng of Shangdun 上墩彭. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhangzhenshê 南箕张镇社 is organized by the Peng of Qiandun 前墩彭. 8/4: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhangzhenshê 南箕张镇社 is organized by the Peng of Houdun 后墩彭. 9/9: Celebration for the ascension day of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. On a day determined by divination in the ninth intercalary month, Tianshang shengmu is carried in a procession around the territory. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village, or the surname and neighborhood involved, organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V366 Jiangbian 江边 1. Village settlement The population of Jiangbian is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何 and Chen 陈. The He migrated here during the Yongle period (1403–1424). There is a He lineage ancestral hall 何氏祠堂. The He of Jiangbian are of the same ancestry as the He of Zhudun 朱墩. 3. Village temples 1) Zhangzhen heshê 张镇何社 is linked to the Zhuoling miao 濯灵庙: This temple was rebuilt in the 1936, and was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Jiucha dasheng 纠察大圣. Secondary gods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Jiangding shengwang 江定圣王. 2) Zhangzhen chenshê 张镇陈社: The main god is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Zhuolingmiao 濯灵庙: The main god is Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 4) Wuchangci 五常祠: This temple was built in Wanli 15 (1587) and rebuilt during the Daoguang period (1821–1850). The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 5) Zhenwumiao 真武庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary god is Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. 6) Lanyimiao 兰义庙: The main god is Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. 7) Defengsi Buddhist temple 德丰寺 was rebuilt in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:200). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 is invited by the Chen 陈 to practice the Dao in every one of their households and to go on procession within their territory. They hold a lantern procession at night. On 1/15 Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 is invited by the He 何 to practice the Dao in every one of their households and to go on procession within their territory. That night they hold a lantern procession. On a day determined by divination around 1/20, a common Yuanxiao is held and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 are invited to go on procession throughout the village. Every household goes to Zhuolingmiao 濯灵庙 to collect a lanten to hang in their own home 挂灯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual-event together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 9/09: The birthday celebration of Jiucha dasheng 纠察大神 and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 10/09: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Zhudun 朱墩 1. Village settlement Zhudun is divided into three neighborhoods: Zhudun 朱墩, Chenzhuang 陈庄, Waiyang 外洋. Their total population is 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何. 3. Village temples 1) Zhangzhen zushê 张镇祖社 was built in Tongzhi 1 (1862). This temple branched off from the Zhangzhen heshê 张镇何社 of Jiangbian 江边张镇. On 1/ 13 of every year, incense is requested 请香 from the Heshê 何社 to re-affirm the link between the temples. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫: Originally built prior to the Ming, the temple was rebuilt in the Jiajing 40 (1561). The temple is co-owned by three surnames: the Kang 康, the Wu 吴, and the He 何. The main god is Fazhu xianfei 法主 仙妃. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁 府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Shengzhongtang 圣中堂: This temple was built in the sixth year of Daoguang 6 (1826). The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Zhangzhen zushê 张镇祖社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. The villagers hold a lantern procession at night. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual-event together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13 villagers go to the Jiangbian Zhangzhen heshê 江边张 镇何社 to request incense-ash 请香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/21: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Prior to the 1949, on this day Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 went on a procession around the following villages: Budun 布墩, Nanji 南箕, Xuzhu 西洙, Jiangbian 江边, and Zhudun 朱墩. This procession has not been restored. 9/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V368 Qianbudun 前布墩 1. Village settlement The population of Qianpudun is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Fu 傅. There is a Fu lineage ancestral hall 傅氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Zhangzhenshê 张镇社, Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Fuxingtang 福兴堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the gods of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 are invited to go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. The villagers hold a lantern procession at night. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. During the 9th lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V369 Houbudun 后布墩 1. Village settlement The population of Houbudun is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing zushê 新兴祖社 was built in Jiaqing 14 (1809). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄 坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Li daren 李大人, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Zhenxingting 振兴亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Xinxing zushê 新 兴祖社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. They hold a lantern procession that night. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/09: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Lifu daren 李府大人. On the above dates, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A082 Haopu qijing (Haopu sevenfold ritual alliance) 濠浦七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Haopu is located in between the southern main channel of the Yanshou irrigation system 延寿陂南大沟 and the central main channel of the same system 延寿陂中大沟. This area was part of the Sizhou xizhupu (police/defense unit) 泗州西洙铺 and the Dongyang Wutangpu 东阳吴塘铺 of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里, along with the Xunan jindianpu 徐南锦店铺 of Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the following villages were already settled here: Xizhu 西洙, Dongyang 东洋, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xiawutang 下吴塘 and Xiji 西机. In the Qing the following villages separated off: Houwu 后吴, Houting 后亭, Dongdai 东埭, Dunzi 墩仔, Tiancuo 田厝, Huanggoubian 黄沟边, Gouxi 沟西, Gouwei 沟尾 and Tiancen 田岑. Currently the area is managed by the two Administrative Villages of Xizhu 西洙 and Dongyang 东阳行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to the she-miao temple system into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The sevenfold ritual alliance of Haopu includes Xizhu 西洙, Dongyang 东阳, Dongdai 东埭, Houwu 后吴, Xishi 西施, Xuqiao 徐桥, and Gouxi 沟西. The Haopushê 濠浦社 temple, located in Xuqiao 徐桥 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is the Imperially Enfeoffed Zhongzhen shenghou 敕封忠正圣侯 (a glorified title for Zunzhu minghuang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival the temples of the sevenfold alliance each come in turn to the Haopushê temple to invite the gods to their home villages. Each village in the ritual alliance also visits the Haopushê in turn during the ninth lunar month in order to sponsor performances of opera in commemoration of the feast day of the gods. Haopu sevenfold ritual alliance Historically, the Wu lineage of Xizhu 西洙吴 and the Chen lineage of Dongyang 东洋陈 were both prominent lineages with many successful examination graduates. In the Ming, the Wu lineage produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and nine Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) while the Chen lineage produced seven Jinshi and fourteen Juren. In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage. The following year, Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) the Putian District Magistrate 莆田知县 set up a Zhuoxiu 擢秀牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage 吴. Soon thereafter, in Ming Chenghua 9 (1473) the 巡按御史 Regional Inspector set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Chen lineage. 
V370 Xizhu 西洙 1. Village settlement Xizhu village is a part of Xizhu Administrative Village 西洙行政村. Xizhu village is divided into two parts, called Dainei 埭内 and Daiwai 埭外, with a total of nine neighborhoods. Neidai includes the four neighborhoods of Tiancuo 田厝, Xincuo 新厝, Houting 后亭, and Dunzi 墩仔, while Waidai includes the five neighborhoods of Huanggoubian 黄沟边, Menqian 门前, Tingding 厅顶, Weicuo 尾厝, and Houzhuang 后庄. The present total population of Xizhu village is approximately 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Wu 吴. This was recognized as being a prominent family 望族, with three Jinshi 进士 and nine Juren 举人 degrees awarded during the Ming Dynasty. There were three paifang 牌坊 in the village at that time. 3. Village temples (Haopushê 濠浦社, the main temple of the alliance, is located in Xuqiao 徐桥). 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社: located in Huanggoubian 黄沟边. The main god is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xufu daren 徐府大人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fushi jiangjun 副使将军, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Yuanyingmiao 元应庙 is located in Daiwai 埭外. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将 军 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Tengyungong 腾云宫 is located in Dunzai 墩仔. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianzun yuanshuai 天尊元 帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Kuiguang shuyuan 奎光书院, located in Daiwai 埭外 and was built during the Baoqing period (1225–1227). There is a plaque from Jiaqing 2 (1797). The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Yiyong pujihou 义勇普济侯 (Wu Xing 吴兴, also called as Gufengye 古峰爷), and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 5) Puguangci 普光祠: located in Dunzi 墩仔. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚 and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 6) Zhaoyangci 朝阳祠 is located in Dainei. The temple was built during the Ming Wanli 万历 period (1573–1620) and rebuilt during the Qing Tongzhi 同治 period (1862–1874). The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo Zhenren 卓真人, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈胜 护法, Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 records 122 initiates. 7) Shenggongmiao 圣公庙 is located in Xincuo 新厝. The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Fengdeci 凤德祠 is located in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 9) Mingxiatang 明夏堂: located in Tianzhuang 田庄. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Pumingtang 普明堂: located in Tianzhuang 田庄. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Daiwai 埭外 invites the gods of the Haopushe 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory and practice the Dao in every household. These events are organized by Daiwai. On 1/15 Dainei 埭内 invites the gods of the Haopushê to go on procession within its territory and practice the Dao in every household. These events are organized by Dainei. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is organized by Daiwai 埭外. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Dainei 埭内. 3/22: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is organized by Huanggoubian 黄沟边. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. These events are organized by Daiwai 埭外. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the village. 7/10: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is organized by Daiwai 埭外. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Yiyong pujihou 义勇普济侯. 9/22: The birthday celebration of the Chifeng Zhongzheng shenghou 敕封 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) is organized by the village On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rituals are held. Funds are collected on a per capita basis, along with voluntary contributions. 
V371 Dongyang 东阳 1. Village settlement Dongyang village was originally called Dongyang 东洋. Dongyang village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳 行政村. The population of Dongyang is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. They were recognized as a prominent family 望族, and achieved seven Jinshi 进士 and fourteen Juren 举人 degrees in the Ming Dynasty. There is a paifang 牌坊 in the village. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Linchaogong 临潮宫: The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yaogong ershi 姚公二使, and Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 2) Qiyang shuyuan 淇阳书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/20 the Yuanxiao festival ends in this village. The gods of Linchaogong 临潮 宫 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on a procession through Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xishi 西施, Goumei 沟美, Gouxi 沟西. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is held. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god is taken on a procession within the village. 7/29: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Chifeng zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正 圣侯. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Gouxi 沟西 1. Village settlement Gouxi village is also known as Jiaoxi 郊西. Gouxi village is a part of the Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population of Gouxi is approximately 325 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Gouxigong 沟西宫, Dongyangxijing Fuhaigong 东阳西境福海宫: The main god is Cigan renhui xianfei 慈感仁惠仙妃. Secondary gods include Baima xianggong 白马相公, Wulu yuanshuai 五路元帅, Lu sheren 卢舍人 and Wuzhaojun 五兆君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦 社 are invited to go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession within Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xishi 西施, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/06: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 and Wulu jiangjun 五路元帅. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Chifeng zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正 圣侯 is organized together with Dongyang 东洋 village. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V373 Dongdai 东埭 1. Village settlement Dongdai village is a part of Xizhu Administrative Village (西洙行政村). Dongdai includes two neighborhoods: Dongdai 东埭 and Houwu 后吴. Their total population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Jin 靳 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦 社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Jiangtougong 江头宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was rebuilt recently. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3) Sanchici 三池祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Hemeian 和美庵 was built in Xuantong 2 (1910) (PTZJZCG, 1992:218). 5) Deqingan 德庆庵 was rebuilt in 1980 (PTZJZCG, 1992:218). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Houwu 后吴 neighborhood invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. They hold a lantern procession at night. This event is organized by the Wu 吴. On 1/12, Dongdai 东埭 neighborhood invites the gods of Haopu shê to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. They hold a lantern procession at night. These events are organized by the Jin 靳. On 1/21–23, Houwu 后吴 invites the gods of Jiangtougong 江头宫 to go on a procession within the village. These events are organized by the Wu 吴 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, Dongdai 东埭 invites the gods of Jiangtougong 江头宫 to go on a procession within the village. These events are organized by the Jin 靳. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/21: The birthday celebration of Chifeng zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正 圣侯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V374 Xuqiao 徐桥 1. Village settlement Xuqiao village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population of Xuqiao is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Xu 徐, Chen 陈, Huang 黄, and You 游. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Haopushê 濠浦社: (This temple is owned by the sevenfold ritual alliance). Built in Tianshun 1 (1457), the temple was restored in the Jiaqing period (1796–1820). A stele survives from that period. The temple was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Chifeng Zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王), Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Wuhu Jialan 五虎伽蓝. This temple preserves three stelae, the Jiaqing 6 (1801) 重建西 漳濠浦社碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the earth god temple of Haopu in Xizhang); the Jiaqing 18 (1813) 重建濠浦里社记 (Record of the repairs to the Haopu village earth god temple) ; and the Daoguang 23 (1843) 濠浦社禁约碑 (Stele outlining prohibitions and statutes of the Haopu earth god temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995, pp. 265, 290, 308, No. 230, 252, 273). 2) Longxingmiao 隆兴庙 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, gods of Longxingmiao 隆兴庙 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession within Xuqiao 徐桥, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang梧塘, Xishi 西施, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/23: The birthday celebration of Xishi 西施. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V375 Xishi 西施 1. Village settlement Xishi village was originally called Xiji 西机. Xishi village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population of Xishi is 228 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Xinxingci 新兴祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xinxingmiao 新兴庙: The main god is Xufe daren 徐府大人. Secondary gods include Qixiannü 七仙女 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23, the Weiye Yuanxiao 尾夜元宵 is celebrated and the gods of Xinxingmiao 新兴庙 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of the Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession through Xishi 西施, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by the Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Chifeng Zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠 正圣侯. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V376 Wutang 梧塘 1. Village settlement Wutang was originally called Haotang 濠塘, Xiawutang 下梧塘or Wutang 吴塘. Wutang village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shê 佘. The Shê migrated from Zhenqian 镇前 during the early Qing, and they have an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples Wan’anshê 万安社 was built during the late Qing, and renovated both during the Republican era and after the founding of PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Wan’anshê 万安社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of the Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on a procession through Wutang 梧塘, Xishi 西施, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by the Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/22: The birthday celebration of Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V377 Goumei 沟美 1. Village settlement Goumei village is also know as Gouwei 沟尾 or as Jiaowei 郊尾. Goumei village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village (东阳行政村). The population is over 212 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Yangzhici 仰止祠, Yongqingshê 永庆社 was built during the late Qing Dynasty, and was renovated both during the Republican period and after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the incense burners of the Yongqingshê 永庆社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/14 the gods of the Yangzhici are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession through Goumei 沟美, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xishi 西施, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A083 Changshan sishê (Changshan four shê ritual alliance) 畅山四社 The four shê alliance of Changshan is located just downstream of the Yanshou Weir, in between the main southern irrigation channel 延寿陂南大沟 and the main central channel 延寿陂中大沟 of the Yanshoubei irrigation system, at the point where the main northern irrigation channel 延寿陂北 大沟 divides off. This area was part of the Changshan Dapanpu 畅山大泮 铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Changshan 畅山 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Daban 大 泮, Putou 浦头, and Xitou 溪头 separated off. Currently, these villages are Changshan four shê ritual alliance managed by the Changshan Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The temple ritual order is divided according to the she-miao temple system into four shê ritual associations. The Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 temple, located in Changshan 畅山 village, is the main temple of the four shê ritual alliance. The main god is Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. It is said that formerly, the goddess would be taken on processions to the four shê temples of the alliance at irregular intervals, but this has not yet been revived. Historically, the Yao 姚 lineage of Changshan were a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. Over the Ming dynasty, they produced two Jinshi进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and five Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Changshan were part of the white banner alliance. 
V378 Changshan 畅山 1. Village settlement The population of Changshan is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xie 谢. Other surnames include the Pang 庞 and the Yao 姚. In the Ming, this village had one prominent lineage 望族 (the Xie) which produced two Jinshi 进士, and seven Juren 举人. 3. Village temples Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Zhongjingshê 中井社 was rebuilt in the Xuande period (1909–1911). The main gods are Shuji shenghou 顺济圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王), Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君 and Xushi shengfei 许氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 and Zhongjingshê 中井社 (excluding Xushi shengfei 许氏圣妃 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃) are carried in a procession within the village. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on a procession to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Shunji shenghou 顺济圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V379 Putou 浦头 1. Village settlement The population of Putou is approximately 568 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. There is a Huang ancestral hall 黄氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Chengxingshê 诚兴社 branched off from the Zhongjingshê 中井社 of Changshan 畅山. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xushi shenfei 许氏圣妃, and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Xinxiangong 新仙宫: The main god is Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xietian dadi 协天 大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, and Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 3) Yixintang 一心堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 22 initiates. 4) Hezhuci 合珠祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 20 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Chengxingshê 诚兴社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/12: a group of villagers goes on pilgrimage to the Dongyueguan 东岳观 in Jiangkou 江口 to request the incense of the god Zhusheng dadi 注生 大帝. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V380 Daba 大坝 1. Village settlement Daba was originally known as Dapan 大泮. The population of Daba is approximately 630 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The village has several Christian believers. 3. Village temples 1) Huiling xinggong 会灵行宫, Xin’an shangshê 新安 上社 was destroyed by floods in 1958, rebult in 1983, and moved and rebult again in 1994. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Dongyue 东岳 Zhusheng shangdi 注生上帝 (this deity branched off 分香 from the Dongyueguan 东岳观 of Jiangkou 江口), and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃 (originally called Yangzhong xiangu 洋忠仙姑). Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Xingchongmiao 兴重庙: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. 3) Xiangdeci 香德祠: rebuilt recently. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 11 initiates. 4) Shunjimiao 顺济庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary god is Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On1/14–15 the gods of Huiling xinggong 会灵行宫 and Xin’an shangshê 新安上社 go on procession within the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Wushi shengfei 吴氏仙妃 is taken on a procession around the village. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/28: The birthday celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. 11/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V381 Xitou 溪头 1. Village settlement Xitou village has 972 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zeng 曾, the Yang 杨 and the Weng翁. Minor surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Ke 柯. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation based on age. 3. Village temples 1) Xixi zushê 溪西祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Lisan furen 李三夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Chengbentang 承本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Xixi zushê 溪西祖社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. In the evening there is a lantern procession around the village boundaries. Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/28–29, Toufu 头福 is celebrated and Lisan furen 李三夫人 is taken on a procession around the entire village. In the evening, palm leaf sedan chairs are raced over bonfires, opera is performed, and Daoist rites are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: the celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人 is held. 8/15: the celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/16: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are carried out. 
A084 Nanjiao qijing (Nanjiao sevenfold ritual alliance) 南郊七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanjiao is located along the central main channel of the Yanshoubei 延寿陂中大沟 irrigation system. This area was part of the Nanjiaopu 南郊铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Nangou (Nanjiao) 南沟 (南郊) was settled. In the Qing it divided into Shangnangou/jiao 上南沟 and Xianangou/jiao 下南沟. Currently the area includes the natural villages of Jiaonan 郊南, Jiaobei 郊北, Xikou 溪口, Xiananjiao 下南郊, Xiyang 西洋, Weicuo 尾厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Xiangli 衖里, Qiaotou 桥头, and Gongdou 宫兜. All these villages are managed by the Nanjiao Administrative Village 南郊行政 村. The temple ritual order is divided according to the system of shê altar temples into seven jing 七境 ritual territories. The Wanxing xingong 万兴新宫, located in Jiaobei 郊北 village, and the Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 located in Xiananjiao Qiaotou village 下南郊桥 头, are the main temples of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Every year on lunar 1/23, the villagers of Shang and Xiananjiao go on a pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong 壶公 Mountain to invite the temple’s Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 to go on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanjiao. Each year on lunar 3/23, the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 is taken on a procession around the sevenfold alliance. 
V382 Jiaonan 郊南 1. Village settlement people. The population of Jiaonan is approximately 700 Nanjiao qijing sevenfold ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. Other surnames include the Lu 陆 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Wanxingruigong 万兴瑞宫, Wanxingshê 万兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Wanxingruigong 万 兴瑞宫 and Wanxingshê 万兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyun dian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V383 Jiaobei 郊北 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is Kang 康. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing xingong 万兴新宫, Wanxingshê 万兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3) Hedetang 合德堂: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Wanxing xingong 万兴新宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyun dian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V384 Xikou 溪口 1. Village settlement The population of Xikou is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社 was built in 1928 and was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Ma fu daren 马府大人. 2) Qingxinggong 清行宫: The main god is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Secondary gods are: Mafu daren 马府大人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大人, Shangzhu mafu 上主妈府, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Linshima 林氏妈, Erwei faye 二位法爷 and Sanwei xingban 三位兴班. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the gods of the Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社 are carried to every household to practice the Dao 行道. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V385 Xiananjiao 下南郊 1. Village settlement Xiananjiao is also know as Qiaotou 桥头. The population of Xiananjiao is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林and the Yang 杨. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiazhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Hualaisi Buddhist temple 华来寺. (PTZJZCG, 1992:199) 3) Wanyingting Buddhist pagoda 万应亭 was rebult in early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 The goddess is carried in a procession around the village. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V386 Xiyang 西洋 1. Village settlement The population of Xiyang is approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Yang 杨. 3. Village temples Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a proces   sion through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with the villages of Weicuo 尾厝, Xiacuo 下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V387 Weicuo 尾厝 1. Village settlement Weicuo village includes Qiaotou 桥头. The population of Weicuo is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 (actually located in Nanjiao 南郊, see below): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Qinglongdian 青龙殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wanglinguan 王灵官 and Zhang Tianshi 张天师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized in rotation with the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Xiacuo下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
V388 Xiacuo 下厝 1. Village settlement The population of Xiacuo is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 (actually located in Nanjiao 南郊): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Lufu 鲁府: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞: The main god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Jiangfu daren 江府大人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Xiacuo 下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Xiangli 衖里 1. Village settlement The population of Xiangli is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin ancestral hall named the Qingyuanci 庆源祠 which is co-owned with the Gongdou Lin 宫兜林. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 (actually located in Nan jiao 南郊): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Qinglinggong 青凌宫 was built in Guangxu 29 (1903). The main god are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized together with the Gongdou Lin 宫兜林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Xiacuo下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
V390 Gongdou 宫兜 1. Village settlement The population of Gongdou is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Huang 黄and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Yangqingong 洋沁宫 was rebuilt in Guangxu 23 (1897). The main god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社(actually located in Nanjiao 南郊): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Heqing shudetang 合清树德堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, the gods of Yangqingong 洋沁宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyun dian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: the birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A085 Jiaoxia qijing (Jiaoxia sevenfold ritual alliance) 郊下七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiaoxia is located along the middle main channel of the Yanshoubei irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟. This area was part of the Nangoupu 南沟铺 (police/defense unit), the Shangwei Dengkekoupu 上魏登科口铺 and the Xunan Jindianpu 徐南锦店铺 of Xunan, all part of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. The village of Goubei 沟北 and Chenjiakou 陈家口 were settled in the Ming. In the Qing, the villages of Xiating 下亭, Qianting 前亭, Siting 四亭, Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Xiting 西亭 and Qianzhang 前张 all separated off. All the villages of the area are now managed by the Haopu Administrative Village 濠浦行政村. The temple ritual order is divided according to the shê-altar and temple system into seven ritual territories. The Haopugong 濠浦宫 temple, located in Jiaoxia 郊下 (沟北) Goubei village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Formerly, the god was taken on processionJiaoxia sevenfold ritual alliance on irregular occasions to the shê-altar s and temples of the sevenfold alliance, but these collective processions have not yet been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiaoxia was part of the white banner alliance. 
V391 Xiating 下亭 1. Village settlement Xiating is also known as Haoting 濠亭. Xiating village is divided into the following neighborhoods: Xiating 下亭 (Haoting 濠亭), Tiancuo 田厝, and Xiagou 下沟. The population is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Their founding ancestor came from Beigao Shanqian 北高山前 in 1540. They have the same ancestor as do the Donghua Chen 东华陈. 3. Village temples 1) Haopushê 濠浦社: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯(Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Gongcao dasheng 功曹大圣, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Fulingong 福麟宫: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Zhongjun ye 中军爷. 3) Xingjitan 兴济坛: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Bangfuci 榜福祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Wuji xiansheng 无极先生, Wusheng xiansheng 吴圣先生, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Anfu dashi 安府大师, Huatuo xianshi 华佗仙师, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jin daren 金大人, Bai daren 白大人, Li daren 李大人 and Wenwu liesheng 文 武列圣. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 38 initiates. 5) Sanzhongci 三中祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Dizang renshi 地藏人师, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者, Chensheng hufa 陈胜 护法, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Weng Yiyang 翁一扬, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 6) Tudici 土地祠: located in Xiagou 下沟. The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Fushouci 福寿祠: located in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 41 initiates. 8) Fulingong 绂麟宫: located in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 9) Mingxintang 明新堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:6 records 39 initiates. 10) Fushanan 福善庵 was rebult in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Five Fushou 福首 (Shêlu 社炉) are selected in rotation according to age each year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人, Li daren 李大人 and Bai daren 白大人. 2/3: The birthday celebration of Zhongyou shenghou 忠正圣侯. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Zhongjun ye 中军爷. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神诞辰 is organized by Xiagou 下沟. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Tiancuo 田厝. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village or neighborhood organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V392 Siting 四亭 1. Village settlement The population of Siting is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Haopu shê 濠浦社, Xiangying xiantan 祥应显坛: The main gods are Zhongyou shenghou 忠祐圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 and the Xiangying xiantan 祥应显坛 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday celebration of Zhongyou shenghou 忠祐圣侯 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V393 Jiaoxia 郊下 1. Village settlement Jiaoxiao is also called Haopu 濠浦, Chenjiakou 陈家口, Dengkekou 登科口, and Goubei 沟北. The village is divided into two neighborhoods: the Dongjing (east ritual alliance) 东境 and the Xijing (west ritual alliance) 西境. The total village population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yao 姚. 3. Village temples 1) Dengkegong 登科宫 was built in the late Ming. The temple was later moved and rebuilt in Qianlong 1 (1736), and was renovated in 1927. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太使, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣 妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lisan furen 李三夫人, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Haopugong 濠浦宫: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xianmu yuanjun 仙母元君, Xiannü niangniang 仙女娘娘, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yuanshi tianzun 元始 天尊, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Xijing 西境 invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/13 Dongjing 东境 invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/14–15 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Dengkegong 登科宫 are invited to go on a procession throughout the village. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/22: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Xijing 西境 ( the western ritual territory) 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Dongjing 东境 (the eastern ritual territory). On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by the neighborhoods of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V394 Xizhang 西漳 1. Village settlement Xizhang village is also known as Qianzhang 前张. The total village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Haopushê 濠浦社, Zhaominggong 昭明宫: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Tianhuaan 天花庵: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Hebentang 合本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:10 records 66 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 and Zhaominggong 昭明宫 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V395 Xiting 西亭 1. Village settlement Xiting was originally called Qianting 前亭. The population of Xiting is approximately 240 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Li 李 and the Huang 黄. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Haopushê 濠浦社, Yutianci 玉天祠, Ruiliandong 瑞莲洞: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯(Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zheng daren 郑大人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners shêlu 社炉 of Haopushê 濠浦社, Yutianci 玉天祠 and Ruiliandong 瑞莲洞 are carried to every household to practice the Dao 道 and then go on a procession within the village. On 1/24, the final evening of the Yuanxiao festival, the wanye Yuanxiao 晚夜元宵, is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A086 Changfeng qijing (Changfeng sevenfold ritual alliance) 长丰七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Changfeng is located along the central main channel of the Yanshou irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟. This area was part of the Shangwei Dengkekoupu 上魏登科口铺 and the Xunan Jindianpu 徐 南锦店铺 (police/defense units), both of which were in the Xiaoyili subcanton 孝义里. The village of Changfang 长坊村 was settled in the Ming, and was part of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton, but in the Qing it became part of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. Over the Qing, this village branched off into the following villages: Qiandun 前墩, Houdun 后墩, Shangnan 上南, Xiaoxiali 郊下里, and Yangzhong 洋中. Currently these villages are managed by the Changfeng 长丰 and Haopu Administrative Villages 濠浦二行政村. The temple ritual order is divided according to shê-altars and temples into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The Tianhougong 天后宫 temple, located in Houdun 后墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 3/23, on the feast day of the goddess, a procession is held to all the ritual territories and all the subsidiary villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Historically, the Lin lineage of Changfeng 长丰林 was a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. In the Ming this lineage produced four Jinshi 进士 and six Juren 举人. The Zhang 张 lineage of the same village also produced two Juren 举人. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold alliance of Changfeng was part of the black banner alliance. Changfeng sevenfold ritual alliance Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement Qiandun village is a part of Changfeng Administrative Village 长丰行政村. The population is 575 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Weng 翁 and the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxinggong 福兴宫, Fuxingshê 福兴社 was built in the Ming Chongzhen 1 (1628), and renovated both during the late Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. Secondary gods include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Xu taiye 徐太爷, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Wanhuating 万花亭: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神, and torches are lit 点火把. On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on a procession to every household. On 1/13 the Weng 翁 and the Zeng 曾 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on a procession to every household. On 1/24, the final evening of the Yuanxiao festival (Weiye Yuanxiao) is celebrated and new Fushou 福首 are selected in place of those of the succeeding year 新旧福首交接. On 1/29 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. The gods of the Fuxingshê 福兴社 are invited to go on procession within Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. These events are organized by Fuxingshê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Marionette opera is performed. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 8/12–13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized with Houdun 后墩 in turns. 10/28: A procession is held within the village. Both the main gods and secondary gods participate. However, only some of the gods are taken on procession. Different surname groups host the gods on different days. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by surname groups, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V397 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun village is a part of Changfeng Administrative Village 长丰行政村. The village is divided into three territories. The population is approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Changfengjing Fuxingshê 长丰境福兴社 was built in Ming Jiajing 16 (1537). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built recently as a division of Fuxingshê 福兴社. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Xinanci 新安祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Ligong daren 李公大人 and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 4) Qilinsi Buddhist temple 祗林寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1871–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of the Fuxingshê 福兴社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. The gods of the Fuxingshê 福兴社 are invited to go on procession within Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. These events are organized by Fuxingshê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On there dates, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V398 Chennnan 辰南 1. Village settlement Chennan village was originally called Shangnan 上南. Chennan village is a part of Changfeng Administrative Village 长丰行 政村. The population of Chennan is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Zhang 张, and Huang 黄. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Anren zushê 安仁祖社, Lingxunmiao 灵逊庙: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18–19 the gods of Anren zushê 安仁祖社 and Lingxunmiao 灵逊庙 are invited to practice the Dao in every household and to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V399 Jiaoxiali 郊下里 1. Village settlement Jiaoxiali was originally called Jiaobeili 郊北里. Jiaoxiali village is a part of Haopu Administrative Village 濠浦行政村. Jiaoxiaoli is made up of two two neighborhoods: Jiaoxiali 郊下里 and Yangzhongyang 洋中央. The total population is 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. They have a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wen daren 温大人, Jin daren 金大人, Pangu dijun 盘古帝君, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Qinglian xinggong 青莲行宫: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教 主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元 君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qinming daren 钦命大人 and Daxiong 大兄 (Jishen 乩神) . 3) Wenfengshê 文峰社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lisan furen 李三夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Panguan jishi 判官吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession around the village. Anrenshê 安仁社 and Wenfengshê 文峰社 separately organize the event. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by the village. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by the village. 7/16: The celebration of the apotheosis of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 8/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Anrenshê 安仁社 is organized by the Anrenshê. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wenfengshê 文峰社 is organized by the Wenfengshê. On these occasions, opera is performed and either Three in One scripture masters or Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. The events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê temples and their communities, and funds are raised on a per capita basis and/or by voluntary contributions. 
A087 Chenqiao sicun (Chengqiao four village ritual alliance) 陈桥四村 The Chengqiao sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Central main channel of the Yanshoubei Irrigation system 延寿里中大沟. Some of its lands are on the north shore of another bend in the Mulan 木兰 river. This area was part of the Chenqiao Sanfupu 陈桥三辅舖 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming the villages of Chenqiao 陈桥村 and Sanbu 三步 were already settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Houdun 后墩 and Hanba 涵坝 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Chenqiao Administrative Village 陈桥行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to shê-altars and temples into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The Wenchenggong 文成宫 temple, located in Houdun 后墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold alliance. The Wanan taizhushê 万安太祖 社 is the founding shê-altar of the sevenfold alliance 七境祖社. Each year on lunar 1/27, the general Yuanxiao festival of the alliance is celebrated. This is organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of each of the members of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four village alliance of Chenqiao was part of the white banner alliance. Chengqiao four village ritual alliance 
V400 Chenqiao 陈桥 1. Village settlement The village of Chenqiao has a population of over 2500 people. The village is divided into the following neighborhoods: Weixiang 尾巷, Shanggou 上沟, Zhongjianzhan 中间站, and Weicuo 尾厝. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname makes up 90% (2200 people), while the Wu 吴 make up 10% (250人). In addition there are some households surnamed Xie 解, Shen 沈, Zhang 张, Yu 俞, and Li 李. According to the Chen legend, the first ancestor of the Chen in Putian was an official from Henan 河南 who moved to Kuokou 阔口 outside Putian city. The Chen of Chenqiao moved to this village from Kuokou. They have divided into four lineage branches of which the third branch is the largest, with over 2000 people. There are now two ancestral halls for the lineage as a whole. The first is now the Laorenhui 老人会 (Elderly Association), the other is a storehouse. There is no lineage genealogy in the village. The ancestral tombs are in Lingquan on Hugong 壶公 Mountain. Formerly, groups were organized to sweep the tombs, but this has been discontinued The Wu came from Jiangxi 江西 province. There were six brothers who moved to Putian and established six villages (Chenqiao 陈桥, Wujiao 梧郊, Xizhu 西洙, Xiaotang 筱塘, etc.). In Chenqiao village the Wu have divided into three branches, and the third branch is the largest with over 100 people. Originally there was an ancestral hall (but no longer). The lineage genealogy can be seen in Xizhu village 西洙 near Putian. 3. Village temples 1) Chenqiaojing Wufugong 陈桥境五福宫 contains the altar of the Wanan dongshê 万安东社, and is said to have been first built in the Song dynasty, but which has been recently rebuilt. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wutan zhizun 五坛至尊, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Shiwuma 十五妈, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, and Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 2) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Yuqiren 玉旗人, Jinqiren 金旗人. The SSCDCB, 1992:9 records 30 initiates. 3) Zhizhongtang 致中堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:10 records 32 initiates. 5) Dexintang 德心堂 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206) 6) Qingmingtang 庆明堂 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Weixiang 尾巷 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Shanggou 上沟 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Wu 吴 of Zhongjianzhan 中 间站 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 Dongxing 东兴 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Weicuo 尾厝 and Shanbu 山步 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/27 the general Yuanxiao of the four village ritual alliance is held 总元宵. The spirit mediums 神童 form tanban 坛班 altar association, and carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and his incense burner 香炉 on a procession 巡游. This event was originally organized the by the village elders 乡老, but now a temple management committee has been established with sixteen members to organize the celebrations, and they invite Daoist masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮 and issue proclamations 榜文. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for two days or more. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Zhongyitang temple committee, who invite Three in One scripture masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held in rotation with Houdun 后墩 with each village sponsoring opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are two spirit mediums 神童, one possessed by Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, the other by Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. There is no guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training, but there is a tanban 坛班 altar association, which strikes bells and drums and chants until the spirit mediums go into a trance. On 11/25, the Zhongyitang 中一堂 performs the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Lanpen 兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance). These rites are performed by the initiates 道友 of the temple, as are the regular monthly rites. 
V401 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement The population of Houdun village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname. 3. Village temples 1) Chenqiaojing Wenchingdian 陈桥境文成殿 is the main temple of the Chenqiao village 陈桥村总宫 and was built in Qianlong 60 (1795), and restored in 1985 and 1991. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiankui 天魁 and Dikui 地魁. The back hall is dedicated to the parents of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝父母, Wang lingjun 王灵君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Heqing xingjun 何清星君, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and the Twelve Generals. 2) Chenqiaojing Wanan taizushê 陈桥境万安太祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 3) Zhaojiaotang 照角堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods include Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Jialan 伽蓝, Weituo 韦陀, Xianzhu longnü 献珠龙女, Shancai dongzi 善才童子. 4) Yinqiao shuyuan 印桥书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Secondary gods include Beidou kuixing 北斗魁星, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Ziyi shusheng 紫衣书生, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with at least two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5/15: The celebration of Tiankui 天魁 and Dikui 地魁 is held with three days of opera. 5/17: The celebration of Wang lingguan 王灵官. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with Chenqiao 陈桥 village, which takes turns sponsoring opera performances. 
V402 Hanba 涵坝 1. Village settlement Hanba is across an irrigation channel from Chenqiao 陈桥, and has a population of over 100 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surnames in the village, the Li 李, the Zhang 张, and the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Hanbajing Qingyunmiao 涵坝境庆云庙 contains the altars of Dongqingshê 东庆社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, and Fengguang jiutong 风光九童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 invite the gods of the Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 and the Dongqingshê 东庆社 to go on a procession through the village. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 6/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with two days of opera. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V403 Shanbu 山步 1. Village settlement Shanbu was originally called Sanbu 三步. The village of Shanbu has a population of over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname is dominant. They claim to have the same ancestors as the Chen 陈 of Chenqiao 陈桥. 3. Village temples 1) Wan’an dongqingshê 万安东庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zong’aotang 宗鳌堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhenming xianzhu 贞明先主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zuoyou hufa 左右护法. 3) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include the Eighteen Lohan 罗汉. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the gods of the Wan’an dongqingshê 万安东庆社 on a procession through the village. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with two days of opera. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups On 10/19 the Zong’aotang 宗鳌堂 performs the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Lanpen rites 兰盆). The ritual is performed by the Three in One initiates of the temple 道友. 
A088 Wujiao sancun (Wujiao three village ritual alliance) 梧郊三村 The Wujiao three village ritual alliance is located along the Central main channel of the Yanshoubei Irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟, and lies alongside the Baishui Reservoir 白水塘. The southern edge of the alliance rests on the north shore of the Mulan river, and was originally a salt flat for drying sea-salt. Yakou was a minor transshipment harbor. Hanjiang city is nearby to the north. This area was part of the Mudou xihupu 墓兜西湖铺 (police/ defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. The two villages of Guanxiekou 官泄口 (also called Mudou 墓兜, and now called Wujiao 梧郊) andWujiao three village ritual alliance Guanhou 宫后 were settled in the Ming. In the Qing, the villages of Yakou 衙口 and Yantian 盐田 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Shangwu 上梧 and Jiangwei Administrative Villages 江尾二行政村. The local temple ritual system is primarily organized according to current settlements into a three village ritual alliance. The Fuyugong 浮屿宫 temple, located in Wujiao 梧郊 village, is the main temple of the three temple alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. It is said that formerly the goddess was taken on processions to the villages of the alliance on irregular occasions, but these collective processions have not been revived. This temple preserves the stele composed in Jingding 4 (1263) entitled 浮屿宫石桥题刻 (Carved inscription on the stone bridge of the Fuyu Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:48, No. 43). Historically, the Wu 吴 lineage of Mudou 墓兜 were a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. Over the course of the Ming dynasty, they produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eleven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Wujiao 梧郊 and Lantian 蓝田 were part of the white banner alliance, while Yakou 牙口 was part of the black banner alliance. 
V404 Wujiao 梧郊 1. Village settlement Wujiao was originally called Mudou 墓兜 or Guanxiekou 官泄口 Wujiao includs the original Gonghou village 宫后 and belonged to the Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood, like that of Shangyu 上俞, is the making of doufu 豆腐. It is said that Yakou 牙口 on the river used to be a port for boats coming in from the sea, and that Wujiao was a customs station, and that the village developed around the station. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 is the dominant surname groups with around 500 people. The Wu 吴 are next largest with over 200 people. There are also other households surnamed Liu 刘, Ye 叶, Zhan 詹 and Xie 谢, etc. The Li 李 probably moved to the village in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). They are now divided into four branches, the Fu 福, Lu 禄, Shou 寿 and Houzhi 后置房 branches. The Fu branch is largest with over 200 people, and each of the other branches has about one hundred members. There used to be a lineage hall. They have no lineage genealogies or ancestral worship registers. The ancestral graves are behind the Houlian mountains in Wutang but they have already been abandoned, and villagers no longer can find their location. 3. Village temples 1) Wujiaojing Wujiao lishê 梧郊境梧郊里社 was built in the early Ming and restored in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baihe dayuanshuai 白和大元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Huye 虎爷. 2) Fuyu zumiao 浮屿祖庙 is linked to the Chongxing lishê 重兴里社. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Lingong yuanshuai 林公元帅. 3) Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 is owned by the surname group of the Li 李. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Chiqiaoan 赤桥庵 was built at the end of the Ming, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Fuhuitang 福会堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 6) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Chongxing lishê 重兴里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Wujiao lishê 梧郊里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 Chongxing lishê 重兴里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. On 1/20 Wujiao lishê 梧郊里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. On 1/24 Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/19: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Two spirit mediums spontaneously go into trance upon hearing the drums and gongs. The spirit mediums sometime skewer their flesh with metal needles. When possessed, the spirit mediums can transmit the god’s messages through spirit writing, using the planchette. They can answer questions and predict the future. The organizers of the ritual celebrations are the village elders who are selected annually by rotation. They invite three Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. Xiayuan pudu 下元 普度 usually takes place a few days after winter solstice on a day determined by divination. Mulian opera 目连戏 is performed using marionettes. 
V405 Lantian 蓝田 1. Village settlement Lantian village was originally called Yantian 盐田 and belonged to the Jiangwei Administrative Village 江尾行政村. The village of Lantian has over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. The village belonged to the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 surname group is by far the dominant one in the village. They are related to the Wu of Zhoudun 周墩吴. The Wu lineage has divided into four branches. There is no ancestral hall, but there are two ancestral houses, where, in addition to the ancestors, are worshipped Guanyinfo 观音佛 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3. Village temples 1) Lantianjing Xinganshê 蓝田境兴安社 was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Jinbao sheren 金宝舍人, Zhao wuye 赵五爷 and Zhang siye 张四爷. 2) Longtiantang 龙田堂 is dedicated to Sanyi xiansheng 三一先生. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 spirit mediums 神童 carry the incense burner of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 in a procession. On 1/13 a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 6/12: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Sometimes a single Daoist master is invited to recite scriptures. These events are organized by the 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The following gods of the Lantian lishê 蓝田里社 descend to possess spirit mediums: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 Each year divination blocks are cast to determine the presiding god 主坛神. At Yuanxiao the spirit mediums perform exorcistic dances 行傩. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. Thy invite Daoist masters 道士 to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. The Chiqiaoan 赤桥庵 Buddhist nunnery is collectively owned by Jiangwei 江尾, Yantian 盐田, Duxia 度下 and Wujiao 梧郊. It is run by Buddhist nuns, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is worshipped there. 
V406 Yakou 牙口 1. Village settlement Yakou village is a part of Jiangwei Administrative Village 江尾行政村. The population is over 300 people. Formerly the main livelihood was from brokerages. Nowadays, the main source of income is the sale of ritual offerings and spirit money. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the dominant surname group by far. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and are related to the Chen of Chenqiao 陈桥. 3. Village temples 1) Yajiangjing aojiang xishê 牙江境鳌江西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Yonganmiao 永安庙 is known as the Tanhufu 探花府 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. On 1/20, the spirit mediums of all the black banner alliance villages are invited to pick flower-flames 神童采花. (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of a Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, and opera is performed for two days while Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days while Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. All these events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
A089 Shangyu qijing (Shangyu sevenfold ritual alliance) 上俞七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Shangyu is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白 塘 湖. This area was part of the Shangyu dukoupu 上俞度口铺 (police/ defense unit) and the Zhijie dachengpu 直街大埕铺 of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the two villages of Shangyu 上俞 and Daxicheng 大西埕 were already settled. In the Qing, the villages of Dukou 度口 (also known as Houting 后亭) separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Shangyu 上梧 and the Jikui Administrative Villages 集奎二行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to shê-altars and temples into seven ritual territories. The Yinfugong 迎福宫 temple, located in Shangyu 上俞 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the god would be taken in a procession to each of the villages of the alliance. These collective processions have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Shangyu sevenfold alliance was part of the white banner alliance. 
V407 Shangyu 上俞 1. Village settlement Shangyu village is a part of Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The population of Shangyu village is over 1000 people. The main surnames are Yu 俞 and Yu 喻. There are also the Jiang 蒋, Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, and Chen 陈 minor surnames. The main livelihood is doufu making, supplemented by leaving the village to work in construction. There are Tongzhi and Republican period stelae about bridge construction preserved in the village. 2. Surname groups The Yu 俞 are the main surname group, with seventy households 70 and over 300 people. The next largest surname group is the Yu 喻, which has over 158 people. The Yu 俞 moved to Shangyu from Tutou near Putian 莆田土头. They are divided into two branches: the Dong (east) 东, and Xi (west) 西 lineage branches. The Eastern branch has approximately 176 people living in forty-eight households, while the Western branch has over 210 people living in forty-six households. There is a general ancestral temple which is now the Village Elders Association. The Western branch originally had an ancestral hall but it has been torn down. The Jiang 蒋 about forty-six households and 174 people. The other surname groups total seventy-four households with 401 people in all, and include Liu 刘, Zheng 郑, Dai 戴 and Chen 陈 surnames.Shangyu three village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Yuxijing Yingfushê 榆溪境迎福社 is linked to the Yingfugong 迎福宫. Legend has it that when Zheng Chenggong 郑成功 was attacking Taiwan, his troops tore down the temple to build boats for the invasion. Later a Yinfugong temple 迎福宫 was built in Taiwan. The temple in Shangyu village was rebuilt recently. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xiehu jiangjun 协虎将军, and the Sida jingang 四大金刚. 2) Yingfusi 迎福寺 was originally the temple used for praying for rain by twenty-four surrounding villages 求雨寺. The main gods are Rulai fozu 如 来佛祖. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. 3) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 contains the altar of the Shoufushê 受福社 originally belonged to the miscellaneous minor surname groups. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 Secondary gods include Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Xifu zushê 西福祖社 belongs to the Dai 戴. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Xixingshê 西兴社 belongs to the Jiang 蒋. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 6) Shuangchengtang 双成堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Weituo 韦陀. 7) Huilinting 慧林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Shudeci 树德祠 is dedicated to Caigong 蔡公, Taixupuming 太虚普明, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This temple belongs to the Guanmenjiao 关门教. 9) Zhengxingtan 正兴坛 is inside the Yongfu temple 永福寺: The main god is 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the Yu 俞 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18 the general Yuanxiao is held, and spirit mediums lead a procession around the village boundaries. At night they perform fire-walking rites. Formerly, Shangyu village would go on a joint procession at this time with the other villages in its while banner alliance, including Shangwu 上梧, Houting 后亭, Nancheng 南埕, and Yanning 延宁. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixingshê 西兴社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Jiang 蒋. 8/6: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Yu 喻. 8/7: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Yu 俞. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. 9/23: The celebration of the Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of the Huilinting 慧林亭 is held and opera is performed for two days. Five spirit mediums perform a fire-walking ritual. 10/8: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shoufushê 受福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the miscellaneous minor surname groups. 10/23: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xifushê 西福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Dai 戴. 5. Ritual groups There are spirit mediums in Shangyu who have a tanban 坛班 altar association. They can transmit spirit writing by planchette 扶乩. There is however no guanjie 关戒 formal spirit medium training. Each year the different surname groups select by rotation ten Fushou 福首. On 10/15, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. These rites are organized and conducted by the village Three in One temple, the Shuangchengtang 双成堂. 8/1:Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting village was originally called Dukou 度口. Houting belongs to the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The population of Houting village is over 700 people. The main livelihoods are construction labor and transshipment of goods. 2. Surname groups The village has four main surname groups: the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Wu 吴. The Zhou have over 200 people, the Chen have 150, and the Li have over 130. It is said that the Zhou moved to Houting from Qingzhong in Huangshi 黄石清中. They are now into their seventh generation in the village, and are divided into two branches, with the most people in the first branch. The Li moved to Houting from Yangwei 洋尾 and are now into their fifth or sixth generation. The Chen have divided into three branches, which came to Houting from different places. The first branch came form Kuokou 阔口, the second branch came from Chenqiao 陈桥, and the third branch came from Moshang in the area beyond the coastal evacuations 界外磨上. 3. Village temples 1) Dutoujing Yingfushê 渡头境迎福社 is linked to the Yingfumiao 迎福庙. The temple was recently rebuilt. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府 大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Xinxingtan 新兴坛 is commonly called the Tanhuafu 探花府, and was built in the Qianlong 24 (1759). The temple is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 there is a procession around the boundaries of the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Daoist masters are summoned to hold jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 8/13: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Each year twelve Fushou 福首 are selected according to surname groups. The Chen 陈 select eight, the Li 李 select two, and the Zhou 周 select one. At the end of the 10th lunar month or early in the 11th the Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by a single ritual master. 
V409 Daicheng 岱埕 1. Village settlement Daicheng was originally called Daxicheng 大西埕 or Dacheng 大埕. Daicheng is a part of the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The village of Daicheng has a population of over 1600 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, the Xinyishê 新义社 and the Yingfushê 迎福社. 2. Surname groups There are many surname groups in the village, including the Yan 严, the Huang 黄, the Kang 康, the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, the Lu 陆, the Xu 徐, and the Lin 林. The Yan 严 make up one fifth of the vil   lage population. The ancestors of the Yan lineage were boat builders 福清 光阴. They first worked in Hankou 涵口 painting boats, and later settled in Daicheng, where they have been for seven generations. The Yan have an ancestral hall in Fuqing county in the village of Guangyin 福清光阴, and there they also preserve a lineage genealogy. The Huang have between 300 and 400 people. Their origins are in Huangxia 黄霞. The Zheng 郑 have few households, but they nevertheless have an ancestral hall 祠堂 where they perform collective rites of worship to their founding ancestor and his spouse 合祭公婆. 3. Village temples 1) Taishijing Xinyishê 太师境新义社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Bai daren 白大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qixing furen 七星夫人, Wang daye 王大爷, and Shiwupo 十五婆. 2) Xilaiting 西来亭 contains the altar of the Yingfushê 迎福社. The main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jin daren 金大人, and Bai daren 白大人. 3) Sanchaogong 三潮宫 is dedicated to Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Secondary gods include Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Wang zhongjun 王中军. 4) Yaoguangci 瑶光祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 44 initiates. 5) Rulintang 儒林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 26 initiates. 6) Shundetang 顺德堂 (涵江岱埕) is dedicated to Tudigong 土地公. 7) Hunyuandian 混元殿 is located in Hanjiang daicheng 涵江岱埕. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the Yan 严 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10 the Huang 黄 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 Mountain to request incense fire from Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝香火. Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 possess spirit mediums who go on a procession through the village. Daoist ritual masters from Duotou 哆头 are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/29: The celebration of Bai daren 白大人. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Jin daren 金大人. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinyishê 新义社. 9/15: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. A procession is made to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 Mountain to request incense fire and opera is performed for three days. 10/17: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Fushou are selected by rotation according to age each year. The village has spirit mediums who during Yuanxiao perform exorcistic dances 行傩. The Sanchaogong 三潮宫 has spirit writing sessions 扶乩. The Yaoguangci 瑶光祠 performs Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance. 6/19: 6/24: 7/25: 7/24: 8/4:Xihu ercun (Xihu two village ritual alliance) 西湖二村 The two village ritual alliance of Xihu is located between the Central main channel 延寿陂中大沟 and the Northern main channel 延寿陂北大沟 of the Yanshou irrigation system, and rests alongside the Baitang 白塘 Lake. This region also has the Xihu sluice-gate 西湖斗门, which empties freshwater from the Yanshou river into the tidal river mouth of the Mulan 木兰 river. This area was part of the Mudou Xihupu 墓兜西湖铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili (sub-canton) 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Xihu 西湖 was already settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Duxia 度下 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Jikui 集奎 and Shangwu 上梧 Administrative Villages. The temple ritual system holds each village to be autonomous, but nevertheless each year on lunar 5/13 the two villages hold a collective dragon boat race and ritual. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the two villages of Xihu were part of the black banner alliance. 
V410 Xihu 西湖 1. Village settlement Xihu village belongs to the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The population of the Jikui is over 400 people. The main livelihood is slaughtering pigs and construction work. Xihu two village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The village has the following surnames: the Wang 王, the Yu 俞, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, and the Zhang 张. The Wang make up about one third of the total population. It is said that the original settler of the village was surnamed Yu俞, and that he had been a district magistrate in Putian but that he had originally been from near Xihu 西湖 (West Lake) in Hangzhou 杭州. When he grew old and decided to retire, he placed a husk of grain into the waters of the Beiyang 北洋 irrigation system and followed it as it floated to the site of the village where it stopped in a place of excellent geomantic properties. The official settled there and named it Xihu village. Thus the Yu were the founders of the village, and they once had an ancestral hall which has since collapsed. All the temples of the village were built by the Yu and all the land was originally theirs as well. The Wangs 王 came to Xihu from Pinghai 平海. The first to come were two brothers, but now there have been six generations of the Wangs in the village. They are divided into two branches. The Dafang 大房 has over forty households, while the Xiao 小房 (small) branch has only two or three. The Zhang 张 have over ten households, and came from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 are all minor surnames, who have to depend on the bigger surnames when dealing with outsiders. Some have even changed their surnames to Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Xihujing Taipingshê 西湖境太平社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Peng jiangjun 彭将军. 2) Chengzhongtang 诚忠堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 34 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the village holds a general Yuanxiao festival, and invites Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 513: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. There is dragon boat racing and opera is performed for five to six days, while movies are shown for over ten days. 6/18: The celebration of Peng jiangjun 彭将军 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/16: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups There are over ten spirit mediums in the village but they have not received any special training. Each year the Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 
V411 Duxia 度下 1. Village settlement Duxia natural village belongs to the Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The village population is over 500 people. Duxia village is divided into two neighborhoods called Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. The main livelihood is handicrafts based in bamboo made for export. 2. Surname groups The Zhan 詹 make up 80% of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Lin 林. The Zhan lineage is divided into six branches, and the third branch has the most people, with around 150. There is a Zhan ancestral hall, but there is no lineage genealogy. The Lin are said to have come from Chizhu 赤柱 in Putian 莆田 city. 3. Village temples 1) Xitingjing Chenglongshê 西亭境乘龙社 is connected to the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baima xianggong 白马相公, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Zhichengtang 志诚堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Xiao daye 肖大爷. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records seven initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Qiandun 前墩 takes the gods on procession and seals the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/15 Houdun 后墩 takes the gods on procession and seals the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The village has spirit medium 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩, but there is no specialized collective training for spirit mediums 关戒. Whoever hears the bells and drums and becomes possessed is the spirit medium. Each year two people are selected in rotation on the basis of age to be Fushou 福首. Just before the winter solstice 冬至 the divination blocks are consulted to select the day for the Lanpen rites 兰盆 (xiayuan pudu 下元普渡). A minority of the village population are Christians. Each year on 5/13 there are dragon boat races held with Xihu 西湖 village. 
A091 (
V412 Jilui sijia (Jikui four jia ritual alliance) 集奎四甲 Jikui 集奎) 1. Village settlement Jikui is also called Zhijie 直街. Jikui village is located alongside the Beitang Lake 白塘湖畔. This area was part of the Zhijie dacheng pu 直街大埕铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Qiaonan 桥南 was settled in this area. The current population of Jikui village is approximately 1100 people, and it is managed by the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to neighborhood settlements into four jia ritual associations: Houcuo 后厝, Hougang 后港, Shangjie上街, and Xiajie下街. The main livelihood is rope making and working in factories. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four jia of Jikui were part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups It is said that the original inhabitants of Jikui village were the Kang 康, but nowadays the Zeng 曾 surname group is dominant, with about 50% of the village population. Other important surnames are the Shen 沈 and the Zheng 郑. The Zeng 曾 moved to the village from Huian 惠安 in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). At that time there were two brothers who were fishermen. Their boat sank off the coast of Putian 莆田 and they washed up on shore in Hanjiang 涵江. That night they stayed in a temple in Jikui 集奎 and the god Hei daren 黑大人 came to the brothers in a dream and told them to make fishing hooks for a living. Later their fish hooks became famous and people came to buy them by the boatload. The older brother never married, but the younger brother married and had three sons, who founded three branches of the lineage named Tian 天 (heaven), Di 地 (earth), and ren 仁 (humanity). Now the Zeng are the largest lineage in the village and have reached their tenth generation. Originally they had four ancestral halls, as well as some old ancestral chambers. Currently there are still two ancestral halls. Once they had a lineage genealogy. The ancestral tombs are in the Jiuhua mountains. 3. Village temples 1) Jikuijing Longtou lishê 集奎境龙头里社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baigong daren 白公大人, Heigong daren 黑公大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sihai longwang 四海龙王, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Chouliang dawang 臭梁大王, Liang shengwang 量圣君. 2) Gongdeci 功德祠 is said to have been built in the Song. It was re-dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 in the Ming. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Huibai cishi 慧白慈师 (this monkJikui four jia ritual alliance gained merit (which is the name of the temple) when he rebuilt the temple after it was destroyed by pirates in the Ming), Leishen Puhua tianzun 雷身 普化天尊, Weituo 韦陀, Zhao Gaoming 赵公明, Lu Wenhui 卢文辉, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, Lin Zhenming 林贞明, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Chen Zhida 陈智达, and Liang Puyao 梁普耀. This temple preserves a stele composed in Wanli 16 (1588) entitled 重修涵江新桥记 (Record of the restoration of the New Bridge in Hanjiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:183, No. 161). The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 371 initiates. 3) Longjiangtan 龙江坛 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5) Longxingmiao 龙兴庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军and Wu daren 乌大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 and Hei daren 黑大人 are taken out on a procession around the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The celebration of Hei daren 黑大人. 9/15: The celebration of Sihai longwang 四海龙王. 10/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation on the basis of age. There are four or five spirit mediums, but possession is spontaneous and never a sure thing. Once the drums and the chimes sound whoever becomes possessed is the spirit medium. 
A092 Hougong erjia (Hougong two jia ritual alliance) 后宫二甲 Hougong is also called Houliugong 后刘宫 and Houtou 后头. The village is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Houliugong Xiacaipu 后刘宫下蔡舖 of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Qing, the village of Houliugong was settled, and it has now divided into two large settlements called Hougong 后宫 and Houxue 后学. Both are managedHougong two jia ritual alliance by the Hougong Administrative Village 后宫行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to settlements into two jia ritual associations. The Dunangong 度南宫 temple, located in Houxue 后学 village, is the main temple of the two jia ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 1/16 a general Yuanxiao fesitval is held, and the two jia join in a common procession of the gods of the temple. 
V413 Hougong 后宫 1. Village settlement The village of Hougong has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is construction work in cement, carpentry, and scrap metal. 2. Surname groups The main surmane groups are the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Cheng 程. The Huang make up the majority of the population, with over 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Taixingtang 太兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Dunangong 度南 宫 are invited on a procession through Hougong village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Hougong village, together with Houxue village 后学, celebrate the end of the Yuanxiao festival. They invite the spirit mediums of Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 to go into trance and go on procession through their villages, and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 
V414 Houxue 后学 1. Village settlement The village of Houxue has a population of approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is overseeing construction projects. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Huang 黄. The Huang moved to Houxue in the Wanli period (1573–1620) from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江. According to legend, there were five brothers who opened a school in the village. Early on, the lineage divided into two branches, and now there are six branches, namely the first branch 头房 or Fu 福, the second branch 二房 Shou 寿, the third branch 三房 Ji 吉, and the fourth, fifth, and sixth branches. The Ji branch (third) is the largest with over 400 people. Originally there were three lineage halls in the village, but now only one survives. Formerly there were lineage genealogies 族谱 and worship registers 祭薄, but these are all gone. 3. Village temples 1) Dunangong 度南宫 contains the altars of the Qinganshê 庆安社 and the Qingfushê 庆福社. The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Tuzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (Lu Ban 鲁班) . 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Dunangong 度南宫 are invited on a procession through Hougong village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Houxue village, together with Hougong village 后宫, celebrate the end of the Yuanxiao festival. They invite the spirit mediums of Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 to go into trance and go on procession through their villages, and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 each has a single spirit medium who organizes the Yuanxiao procession, and the tanban 坛班 altar association. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to host the rituals of the year. 
A093 (
V415 Donting sijia (Dongting four jia ritual alliance) 东亭四甲 Dongting 东亭) 1. Village settlement Dongting is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Xiliugong Xiacaipu 西刘宫下蔡铺 (police/ defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Qing, the two villages of Xiacai 下蔡 and Dongting 东亭 were settled in this area. Today they have merged into a single village, with a population of approximately 700. Dongting is part of the Hougong Administrative Village 后宫行政村. The temple ritual Dongting four jia ritual alliance system is divided on the basis of settlement or neighborhoods into four jia 四甲 ritual associations: Houdun 后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houcuo 后厝, and Qiancuo 前厝. The main livelihood comes from working in construction. 2. Surname groups The Cai 蔡 are the main surname groups, with over 300 people. There are also the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Xie 解 surname groups. The Cai moved to Dongting from Linchuan 灵川 and have divided into three lineage branches, of which the third has the most people. There is a Cai ancestral hall and on regular occasions joint worship of the ancestors takes place there. 3. Village temples 1) Dongtingjing Xixingshê 东亭境西兴社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xinglingdian 兴灵殿 was rebuilt in Qianlong 20 (1755). The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Shuaifu Shidaren 帅府 士大人, Duchayuan Gouyushi 都察院苟御史, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, and Fanghuo dadi 放火大帝. 3) Zhuchan shuyuan 珠缠书院 was restored in Daoguang 11 (1831). The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗 星君. 4) Damafu 大妈府 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 5) Sanjiaoci 三教祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Fotang 佛堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the gods of the Xinglingdian 兴灵殿 on a procession around the village boundaries. On 1/17 the gods of the Xixingshê 西兴社 on a procession around the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. 2/3: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration of Shi daren 士大人 is organized by Houdun 后墩. Opera is performed for two days. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and earth 天地 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 7/7: The celebration of Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 7/15: The celebration of Gou yushi 苟御史 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Houdun 后墩. Opera is performed for two days. 8/21: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 9/4: The celebration of Fanghuo dadi 放火大帝 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. Opera is performed for two days. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The celebration of Tianjie guniang 天界姑娘 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. 5. Ritual groups There is one older spirit medium 神童 and four new mediums. They are trained in guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions, which have been held twice, each time for two or three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to these rituals. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation. 5/15:Yangwei liucun (Yangwei six-village ritual alliance) 洋尾六村 The six village alliance of Yangwei is located along the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Yangwei Tangbianpu 洋尾塘边舖 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming the village of Yangwei 洋尾 was settled, and in the Qing the village of Tangbian 塘边 separated off. Currently there are a total of six natural villages in this area: Dongdun 东墩, Lijiao 李角, Xidun 西墩, Houtou 后头, Tangbian 塘边, and Xilin 西林, all of which are managed by the Yangwei Administrative Village 洋尾行政村. The overall population of the ritual alliance is over 3000 people. The Youshengguan 佑圣堂 temple of Dongdu 东墩 village, and the Lingzhengong 灵镇宫 of Lijiao 李角 village, are the main temples of the six-village alliance. Each year on lunar 1/26, Xuantian shangdi of Youshengguan 佑圣堂玄天上帝 and Yanggong taishi of Lingzhengong 灵镇宫杨公太师 are carried in a procession through the six villages of the alliance. Every tenYangwei six-village ritual alliance years, on a day determined by divination, Xuantian shangdi is taken on a procession around the villages bordering the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. 1. Youshengtang 佑圣堂: According to the Li lineage genealogy 李氏族谱, this temple was originally a Buddhist hall built in Ming Hongwu 5 (1372) by Third place examination winner Huang Yang 黄阳. In Hongwu 24 (1391), a District Magistrate Li, who had served in Yongzhuo Prefecture Qiyang district 永州府祁阳县令李龙公 brought back the statue of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 from that district to Putian 莆田 and worshipped it in the Youshengtang. He also donated land to the temple and expanded the building, so that the god and the Buddha could both dwell in the same place. According to another legend the god statue was lodged in the Buddha hall temporarily while an ancestral hall was being built, but once the new hall was ready, the god refused to move, and so stayed alongside the Buddha. During the Movement to Destroy the Four Olds the temple was demolished. In 1970 it was rebuilt. On the main altar there are Rulaifo 如来佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and in the lower altar in the central hall are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. In the left hand hall are Yuanshu 元暑 and Weituo 韦陀; in the right hand hall are Puxing 普行 and Jialan 伽蓝. On both sides in additional halls are the Eighteen Luohan 罗汉. In a hall further to the left is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. In a hall to the far right is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tuzhu mingwang 土主明王. The processions of the Youshengtan 佑圣堂巡游仪式: Each year on 1/26, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 goes on a procession through the six-fold ritual alliance 巡游六境. Every ten years in the 10th lunar month the god is carried in an special procession through the six-fold ritual alliance. The god’s birthday celebrations are held on lunar 3/3 and opera is performed for three days. This event is organized by the Temple Management Committee, and funds are raised from the entire six-village alliance on a per capita basis. Lingzhengong 灵镇宫 was rebuilt in 1983. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫 人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and to the right are the Sanshiliu gongpo 三十六 宫婆. In the front of the temple are Daye 大爷 and Tudigong 土地神. The processions of the Lingzhengong: Each lunar 1/26, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师 and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 go on a procession through the six village alliance 巡游六境. Birthday celebrations of the gods: 4/26 is the celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师; 5/5 is the celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神; 7/7 is the celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and 8/21 is the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for three days. These events are organized by the temple management committee, and fund are raised from the six village alliance on a per capita basis. Historically, the Li lineage of Yangwei village 洋尾李氏were a prominent local lineage with many successful examination graduates. In the Ming, they produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twelve Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 22 (1486), the Regional Inspector巡按御史 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial arch in honor of the Li lineage 李 in Yangwei village. In Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Buyun 步云牌坊 (Pacing the Clouds) memorial archway to further honor the Li lineage 李. Finally in Ming Hongshi 12 (1499) the Li themselves erected a memorial archway inscribed with Zhigan Yufang 制 干余芳 (continuing fragrance of Li Zhigan 李制干). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the six villages of Yangwei were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V416 Dongdun 东墩 1. Village settlement Dongdun village was once a tidal flat. In the Song, Li Zhigan 李制干 built dikes around this area and reclaimed the land from the sea. Currently the village has a population of over 922 people. Dongdun village is divided into Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝 and Qiaotoujiao 桥头 角 neighborhoods. The main livelihood is farming. Many villagers work in construction and carpentry. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the major surname group. There are also over 100 people surnamed Lin 林. There are also some minor surnames including the Sun 孙, Yang 杨, Tian 田, Dai 戴, Yu 俞, Xie 谢 and the Guan关. The Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞, and now have over 1300 people. The Huang lineage was founded by Ancestor Lanting 兰亭公 who is said to have had six sons. One moved away to Huangshi and those that stayed on in Yangwei divided into five lineage branches. The Huang live mostly in the three villages of Dongdun 东墩, Xidun 西墩 and Xilin 西林. The Huang lineage ancestral hall 黄氏大祠堂 was converted into a school during the Republican period. The other lineage branch ancestral halls have also fallen down or been taken over as production brigade headquarters. The ancestral tombs are in Huangxia 黄霞. The Lin 林 came from Xiake下柯 near Putian 莆田 and have 26 households in the village. They are divided into two lineage branches and there is a ancestral house that is kept up by both branches. At Yuanxiao the entire lineage gathers there to worship their ancestors. There is also the Lizhiganci (Shrine) 李制干祠 in Dongdun 东墩, which was first built in the Southern Song, and was rebuilt in the Ming, and which covers 380 sq. meters. This shrine is a Putian City cultural preservation site. The shrine has a plaque written by the Southern Song Jinshi Wang Jinzhi 王进之 as well as a stele composed in 1526 by the Minister of Justice Lin Jun 刑部尚书林俊 entitled 永思堂记 (Record of the Hall of Eternal Recollection) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:153, No. 131), and another stele composed by Li Tingwu 李廷梧 in Hongzhi 12 (1499) entitled 李氏重修东 墩祠记 (Record of the repairs to the Dongdun Li ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:165, No. 143). The texts of several other inscriptions concerning the Li Zhigan shrine have survived (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:17, 19, 163; No. 18, 21, 141). 3. Village temples 1) Jufushê 聚福社 is the overall main shê-altar of the Huang lineage of Yangwei 洋尾黄氏总社, and it is shared with Xilin village 西林. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On the left is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and on the right Linshui furen 临水夫人 and Chen Banye 陈班爷. 2) Dongxingmiao 东兴庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Guanfuan 观福庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Fuqingtang 福庆堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and belongs to Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. 6) Jianmingtang 建明堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 a procession is held in the village. On 1/13 palm sedan chairs with miniature statues of the gods are taken on procession 摆棕轿. On 1/9 the Huang lineage 黄氏 celebrates Yuanxiao 元宵. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the six-fold alliance management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/29: Xiayuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Formerly, as many as five or seven Daoist ritual masters were invited to conduct the rites, currently only a single Daoist master is invited. During the ritual, water lanterns are set to float from boats on the irrigation canals. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 11/2: Opera is performed for two days at the Lower Prime pudu 下元普度. 5. Ritual Groups There is one spirit medium 神童 in the village, but he is over 60 years old. The village Three in One temple is called the Zhongyitang 中一堂. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Guanfuan 观福庵, where Buddhist rites are performed, and various peoples’ spirit tablets are worshipped. 
V417 Lijiao 李角 1. Village settlement Lijiao village has a population of approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is farming, though many villagers are in the construction business. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 are the dominant surname group. Other minor surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Li 李 are the descendants of Li Zhigan 李制干, and there is a Lishi Great Lineage hall 李氏大宗祠 in the village. This hall was first built in the Ming, and was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 28 (1763). The hall covers 350 sq. meters. The hall preserves a stone inscription composed in 1489 by Minister of the Justice Peng Shao 彭韶 (from nearby Zhenjiang) entitled 白塘李氏重修先祠碑 (Stele recording the repair of the ancestral shrine of the Li lineage of Baitang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:116, No. 103); as well as another inscription from Qianlong 28 (1763) entitled 重建大宗祠碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Great Lineage hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:245, No. 211). There are other ancestral halls and shrines in the village as well, including the Zhoumuci 州牧祠, a shrine set up in the Qianlong period in honor of Vice Magistrate of Zhili Department, Li Guangwen 直隶州司马李光文. This too is a large building, covering 338 sq. meters. The shrine contains two Qianlong plaques recording imperial honors. There is also the Qiyangci 祁阳祠 built in the Ming in honor of Li Long 湖广永州府祁阳县令李龙, which covers some 200 sq. meters. The Li lineage has preserved many additional historical items, including a 1516 stele composed by Investigating Censor Zhou Xuan 监察御使清江周宣 from nearby Qingjiang village. A number of memorial archways have been preserved in the village, including a Song dynasty memorial archway in honor of Li Tingyao 李延耀佥判第坊 and two Ming dynasty memorial archways. In addition, the tomb of Li Zhigan, the 李制干墓, dating to Song Chunxi 9 (1182) and located in the Chanji Mountains of Changtai 常太镇长基山, is visited on lunar 9/11 by representatives of the Li lineage who conduct rites at the tomb. The Li lineage has preserved two genealogies, one is the 白塘李氏族谱 Baitang Lishi zupu dating to 1721; the other is a more recent edition. 3. Village temples 1) Kuilongshê 魁龙社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingzhengtan 兴正坛 is dedicated to Ou daren 欧大人. This temple was first built in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1521). The temple was rebuilt in 1994. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linzhengong 灵镇宫 are taken on a procession throughout their own village. On 1/15, there is a fire walking rite 踩火. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the sixfold alliance management committee. Five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/3: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a date determined by spirit writing and is conducted once every three years. Marionette plays are performed. 
V418 Xidun 西墩 1. Village settlement The village of Xidun has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, though many villagers are in the construction business. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the dominant surname group with 289 people. There are also a minority of Li 李 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jufu shushê 聚福书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On the left and right are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the villagers go on a procession in their own village. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the six-fold alliance management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V419 Houtou 后头 1. Village settlement Houtou village is also known as Xialou 霞楼. The village population is over 400 people living in 106 households. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. There are also seven households surnamed Gao 高, along with some households surnamed Wu 吴, Li 李, Qi 祁 and Shê 佘. The Chen are divided into two main lines, the Yingshui Chen 颍水陈 and the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈. The former line has lived in the village for over ten generations, and has divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Jiafu zushê 嘉福祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Bujintan 布金坛 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left and right are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Baigong daren 白公大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 3) Yaokun shuyuan 瑶琨书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On a day early in the ninth lunar month, as determined by divination, an Assembly of the Dao 会道 ritual is held with the participation of many nearby Three in One temples and their initiates. 4) Sanqingdian 三清殿 is located in the village. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅 is invited to the village to go on procession. Spirit mediums “pluck the flames” 神童踩火. On 1/21 opera is performed and on 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected to organize the ritual activities of the year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/17: The celebration for Baigong daren 白公大人. 8/15: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is the Yaokun shuyuan 瑶琨书院. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V420 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement The village of Tangbian has a population of 700 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. In 1939, the troops of the Nanbei Army 南北军 burned down the village as they passed through the area. The foundations of an ancestral house renowned throughout the Hanjiang area called the Sanjiancuo 三间 厝 can still be seen in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. The are also a few households surnamed Lin 林. The Chen are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian city. The Chen lineage ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 was burned down by the soldiers of the Nanbei Army. 3. Village temples 1) Sanqijing Yiqingshê 三奇境仪清社 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. To the left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the right: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人. Front altar: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Sanwei daye 三位大爷 and Erwei daye 二位二爷. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 there is a procession within the village, and the spirit mediums of neighboring villages are invited to pick flower-flames (undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of massive Roman candles) 神童采花. On 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22 and 8/24: The celebration of the gods of Hongrenci 弘仁祠. 7/16: The celebration of the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each time opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites are performed on a time determined by spirit writing 扶乩, once every three years. Marionette plays are performed. 5. Ritual Groups This village has spirit medium 神童 who can transmit the messages of the gods in spirit writing 扶乩. 
V421 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement The village of Xilin has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the main surname with around 412 people, and there are also a few Lin 林 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jufushê 聚福社 is in Dongdun 东墩, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Baolintang 宝林堂 is dedicated to Ma daren 马大人. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 there is a procession within the village. On 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The celebration of Ma daren 马大人. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is the Mingdetang 明德堂. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A095 Zhenqian qijing (Zhenqian sevenfold ritual alliance) 镇前七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhenqian is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Zhenqian xiaohupu 镇前孝户铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Song, Ninghai town 宁海镇 had already been settled in this area, and in the Ming the village of Zhenqian 镇前 was settled. In the Qing, the village of Xiaohu 孝户 separated off. Currently the villages of the area are managed by Zhenqian 镇前 and Zhenjiang Administrative Villages 镇江行政村. The temple ritual system is divided primarily according to lineage and settlement into seven ritual territories. The Fushangong 福山宫 temple and the Xinanshê 新安社, both located in Zhenqian 镇前 village, are the main temple and the founding shê-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual territories in the alliance goes to Fushangong to invite the gods to their home temples. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold alliance of Zhenqian was part of the black banner alliance. 
V422 Zhenqian 镇前 1. Village settlement The village of Zhenhai has a population of over 3000 people. The village is divided into several neighborhoods, including Dalu Zhengqian sevenfold ritual alliance 大路, Qianshê 前社, Jiangtouwei 江头尾, Qiaotou 桥头, etc. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surnames groups are the Shê 佘, the Lin 林, the Li 李, the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Weng 翁, and the Fang 方. The Shê 佘 make up almost half the total population. It is said the ancestor of the Shê in Zhenqiao 镇前 had been en route to taking up a position as district magistrate in Chaozhou 潮州知府 when his second son fell ill. He stayed at Shêpu in Hangjiang 涵江佘埔. The third generation of the Shê then moved to Zhenhai. By now, the Shê have reached their 21st generation and have an overall population of nearly 3000 people. There is a great lineage hall and several branch lineage halls. The ancestral graves are in Shangshepu 上佘铺 and each year at the Chongyang (9/9) festival the graves are swept. Other groups of the Shê lineage in Jiangkou Gangxia 江口港下 and Xitianwei Houzhuo 西天尾后卓 go separately to sweep the tombs at Qingming 清明 and at Dongzhi 冬至. The village also has a Wu Lineage ancestral hall. A stone inscription composed in Hongzhi 15 (1502) entitled 圣墩吴氏新建祠堂记 (Record of the newly constructed Wu ancestral hall at Sacred Mound) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:131, No. 112) is about this hall. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenqianjing Fushangong 镇前境福山宫 contains the altar of the Xinanshê 新安社 and is the main temple 总宫 and founding shê altar 祖社 of the three village alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Huye 虎爷, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 2) Zhenqianjing Daxishê 镇前境大西社 is connected to the Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙 and includes the Wuxiangong 五显宫, the Tianhougong 天后宫, and the Jiuchenggong 九成宫. This temple is in Dalu 大路 and was recently rebuilt. The complex includes four temples in a row. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Guangzhou pingwang 广周平王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Hu taibao 胡太保, Yang taibao 杨太保, Bihou daifu 毕侯大夫, and Zhou daye 周大爷. 3) Hongmingdian 宏明殿 is in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 and branched off from Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙. The main god is Guangzhou pingwang 广周平王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Hu taibao 胡太保 and Yang taibao 杨太保. 4) Longxingtan 隆兴坛 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Huang Cang 黄仓, and Bai Cang 白仓. 5) Yunlong shuyuan 云龙书院 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 6) Jiwutang 集午堂 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 was built in Daoguang 12 (1832), and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lu Wenhui 卢文辉, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Hufa jialan 护法伽蓝. 7) Hongrendong 弘仁洞 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Chen Hong haier 陈洪孩儿. 8) Yunyuelou 云月楼 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮and Jialan 伽蓝. 9) Changshoutang 长寿堂 includes the altars of the Xinanshê 新安社, the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Zaiqianshê 在前社. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Jiazi xingjun 甲子星君, Gonggong daren 龚公大人, Peng daye 彭太爷, Zou jiangjun 邹将军. 10) Yanshoutang 延寿堂 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 and Cai daye 蔡大爷. 11) Jurendong 居仁洞 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷 and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Zuoyou erye 左右二爷. 12) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三 一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992: 9 records forty initiates. 13) Hongshanci 弘善祠 in Qiaotou 桥头 has a Yandun yizhong 烟墩义塚 (tomb of the righteous heroes). The temple is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大 爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Chen Hong haier 陈洪孩儿. 14) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 9 records seven initiates. 15) Jiangxiang temple 吉祥寺 was located north of the Ninghai bridge. It was originally attached to the Ninghai bridge and was built in Yuan Yuantong 2 (1334). In Ming Jianwen 2 (1400) Buddist monk Xiangjiang 湘江 rebuilt the temple. The temple was rebuilt again in 1979 (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Yao 姚 take the incense burners of the Xinganshê 兴安社 and the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11 the Dalu 大路 Daxishê 大西社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 the Zheng 郑 of Qianshê 前社 and the Lin 林 of Xingyishê 兴义社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Weng of Zushê 翁姓祖社 and the community of Xizhoushê 西周社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Shê of Sanzhou 三洲佘姓 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22 a general Yuanxiao festival is held in Qianshê 前社, and the spirit mediums 神童 of Changshoutang 长寿堂 are invited to go on a procession around the borders of the community and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/24, the spirit mediums 神童 of Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙 are invited to do the same. On 2/3–4 the Hongmingdian 宏明殿 of Jiangtouwei 江头尾 invites all the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to caihua “pick flower-flames 采花” (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of a Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Villagers request incense fire 香火 from Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong mountain. This is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 2/22: The celebration of Li daye 李大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 3/15: The celebration of Xie daye 谢大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by Dalu 大路. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dalu 大路. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 5/5: The celebration of Wuxian dashen 五显大帝 is organized by Dalu 大路; the celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 6/6: The celebration of Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized separately by Jiangtouwei 江头尾 and Qianshê 前社. 8/23: The celebration of Gong daren 龚大人 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 10/15: The celebration of Huang daye 黄大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 10/19: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Daxishê 大西社 is organized by Dalu 大路. 10/21: The celebration of Jianzi xingjun 甲子星君 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 5. Ritual Groups Zhenqian has a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and assistants, but does not conduct guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. On 10/15, Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed separately by Three in One Scripture Masters and initiates of the Hongrendong 弘仁洞, Hongshanci 弘善祠, and the Jurendong 居仁洞. 
V423 Zhenjiang 镇江 1. Village settlement The village of Zhenjiang has a population of over 3000 people. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qihangqian 棋行前, Dongzhijiao 东至角, and Zhanghuang 张黄. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shê 佘, the Zhang 张, and the Huang 黄. The Shê make up about half of the village population, and are related to the Shê of Zhenhai 镇海. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenjiangjing Shoushangong 镇江境寿山宫 contains the altar of the Fushoushê 福寿社 and is located in Dongzhijiao 东至角. This temple branched off from the main Fushangong 福山宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuhu jialou 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Ma jiangjun 马将军, Jia jiangjun 贾将军, Xiehu dajiang 谢虎大将, and Hongrendong sanwei daye 弘仁洞三位大爷. 2) Zhenjiangjing Lianzhongdong 镇江境莲中洞 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and was built in Guangxu 32 (1906). This temple is said to be the overall main temple for the black banner village alliance of the Hanjiang area 涵江 乌旗总宫. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Leisheng Puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng daye 彭大爷, and Deng daye 邓大爷. 3) Dexingtan 德兴坛 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhou daye 周大爷, Peng daye 彭大爷, and Deng daye 邓大爷. 4) Sanzhou shuyuan 三洲书院 contains the Fushou shushê 福寿书社 and belongs to the Zhang 张. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 5) Xianyuelou 先月楼 is in Dongzhijiao 东至角 and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is in Dongzhijiao 东至角 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7) Longxingdong 隆兴洞 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Huang cang 黄仓, and Bai cang 白仓. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 the Zhang 张 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Huang 黄 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Shê of Sanzhoushê 三洲社佘姓 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 Qihangqiang 棋行前 invites Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on a procession around the village boundaries. On 1/23 Dongzhijiao 东至角 holds a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵, and invites the spirit mediums 神童 of Shoushangong 寿山宫 to go on a procession around the village boundaries, and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/27 Qihangqian’s Lianzhongdong 棋行前莲中洞 invites the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to “pick flower-flames” 神童 采花 (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles) Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/12: The celebration of Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将 is held. 1/19: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their ancestral hall. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 3/15: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their ancestral hall 祠堂. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. The celebration of Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. Each year with an intercalary seventh lunar month Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 goes on a procession through the entire ritual territory. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 10/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 is organized by the village as a whole. 10/15: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their lineage ancestral hall 祠堂. 11/4: The celebration of Xiehu dajiang 谢虎大将 is held. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhenjiang village has an active tanban 坛班 altar association of some forty spirit mediums and assistants. They have carried out guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to their ages. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by Three in One scripture masters. 5/15:Xiaohu 孝户 1. Village settlement Xiaohu village is a part of the Zhenqian Administrative Village 镇前行政村. The village of Xiaohu has a population of over 600 people. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in the village are the Cai 蔡, the Lin 林, the Li 李, and the Wu 吴. The Cai make up a third of the village population. They claim to be descendants of Cai Xiang 蔡襄 who moved to Xiaohu in the thirteenth generation. There is a Cai lineage ancestral hall 蔡氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Ningjiangjing Xinglonggong 宁江境兴隆宫 contains the altar of the Fushoushê 福寿社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taibao zhongjun 太保中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Chongxingtang 重兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Chongshengtang 崇圣堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帥. 4) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷 and Li daye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the incense burners of the shêaltar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19 the overall Yuanxiao festival is celebrated. The spirit mediums 神童 of Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 go on a procession around the village boundaries, and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Nanhu village invites the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to “pick flower-flames” 采花 (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/11: The celebration of Taibao zhongjun 太保中军. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xiaohu village has a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their ritual assistants, but they have never held a guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation on the basis of age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by the initiates of the Hongrenci 弘仁 祠, and funds are raised by voluntary contributions. 
A096 Nancheng sishê (Nanchang four shê ritual alliance) 南埕四社Nancheng 南埕 1. Village settlement Nancheng is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白 塘湖. This region was part of the Nanchengpu 南埕埔 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. The area around Nancheng was originally all Nanchang four-shê ritual alliance sea-salt fields and tidal mudflats. After the construction of the Jishan dike in the Qing, 13,600 mu (over 2000 acres) of land was reclaimed from the sea, and the village gradually was settled. Currently there are some 2000 residents of the village, living in two neighborhoods, Shangdun 上墩 and Xiadun 下墩. In term of ritual organization, the village is divided by surname groups into four shê altars. The three main surnames are the Hu 胡, Cheng 程, and Weng 翁. Another group is made up of the Fang 方 and the Li 李 and other minor surnames. Each of these four groups has its own shê altar 四社. The main livelihood formerly was in the sea-salt fields but nowadays most people work in construction and virtual every family has a carpentry workshop. A minority are involved in commerce in Putian or Hanjiang 涵江. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, all of the four shê of Nancheng village were members of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three surnames of Hu 胡, Cheng 程, and Weng 翁 are the dominant surname groups but there are also several minor surname groups including the Fang 方 and the Li 李. There were originally a few Lin 林 and Zheng 郑 households but they have moved away. The Hu are the largest surname group with over 1200 people. According to legend, there was once a Jiangxi 江西 official surnamed Hu who moved to Putian to take up office, and his descendants lived in Nancheng. Later the lineage formed four branches, and the Hu are already into their twelfth generation. The second branch at some point merged with the first branch, so that there are now three lineage branches. There was originally a lineage hall, but it was torn down. The Cheng moved to Nancheng from Huangshi Zhelang village 黄石遮浪 and now have 480 descendants. They are divided into five branches. The Weng are the Liugui Weng 六桂翁氏. Their founding ancestor was Weng Chulian 翁处廉, who moved to Nancheng village from Beigao 北高. The Weng now number about 300 people, and are divided into three lineage branches. They are related to the Weng of Huangshi Qingzhong 黄 石清中, where their lineage genealogy can be consulted. The Li 李 moved to Nancheng from Yangwei 洋尾. The origins of the Fang 方 are unclear. 3. Village temples 1) Nanjiangjing Yian lishê 南江境义安里社 belongs to the Cheng 程, Weng 翁, and Hu 胡 lineages. The subsidiary branch shê-altars are the Cheng’s Yi’an zhongshê 义安中社, the Weng’s Yian dongshê 翁姓义 安东社 and the Fang’s Yiqingshê 义清社. The main gods of the Yi’an lishê 义安里社 are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 (belonging to the Weng 翁), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (belonging to the Fang 方), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (belonging to the Cheng 程) and Puji shenghou 普济圣候 (also belonging to the Cheng 程). 2) Yian xishê 义安西社 belongs to the Hu 胡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yiqingshê 义清社 belongs to the Fang 方. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Buzheng shijun 布政使君. 4) Sanzhengong 三真宫 (the overall main temple of the village 总宫) has a saying about it which goes “Before you leave Nancheng village, first go to the Sanzhen temple 三真宫”, which locals take to mean that even before the temple was built the god was already there. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 5) Nanjiangjing Xinglongtan 南江境兴隆坛 belongs to the Cheng 程 of Xiadun 下墩. Legend has it that this is the second oldest temple in Putian, and each year with an intercalary seventh month the gods of the temple go on procession throughout the village. The main gods are Tianqian shengmu 天 前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Yawen dutong dashen 押瘟都统大神, and Xiling Kongfu daren 西 岭孔府大人. 6) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xingling dashen 行令大神, Hu yuanshuai 胡元帅, Hu guniang 胡姑娘, Chen xiannü 陈仙女, Li furen 李夫人, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. 7) Xianrenci 显仁祠 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Erye 二爷 and Daye 大爷. 8) Chalitang 察理堂 is dedicated to Li daren 李大人. 9) Yingshuiting 潆水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天. 10) Yanshouge 延寿阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 11) Yumingtang 玉明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 12) Nanjiangjing Hexingtang 南江境合兴堂 belongs to the Hu of Shangdun 上墩胡 and branched off from the Beijidian 北极殿. This temple is commonly called the Tanhuafu 探花府, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wuxian Ma yuanshuai 五显马元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 13) Nanjiang shuyuan 南江书院 belongs to the entire village and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 14) Qingyundian 青云殿 belongs to the Cheng 程 and was built in the Xianfeng period (1851–1861), and rebuilt in 1997. The main god is Yuansheng yuanshuai 袁圣元帅 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 15) Tongshengtang 通圣堂 branched off in the Ming Wanli period (1573– 1620) from the Huangshi Taihuci 黄石太湖祠, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 16) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 17) Yumingtang 玉明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 18) Donglai temple 东来寺 was built in Kangxi 47 (1708) by Buddhist Monk Shenran 深然. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the Weng 翁 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and his spirit medium 神童 on a procession and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/10 the Fang 方 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the 程 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Gangong yuanshuai 干公 元帅, Wuxian yuashuai 五显元帅 and their spirit mediums in sedan chairs on a procession around the village. On 2/5 a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, organized by the Hu 胡. The spirit mediums of neighboring villages are invited to “pick flower-flames” 神童采花. (undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles). Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by the Cheng 程 and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for three days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡 and opera is performed for three days. 4/14: The celebration of Xingling dashen 行令大神. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Weng 翁, and opera is performed for two days. 5/6: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Hu 胡. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 5/17: The celebration of Hu gunniang 胡姑娘. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 6/28: The celebration of Yawen dutong dashen 押瘟都统大神 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 7/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yian lishê 义安里社 is organized by the Cheng 程, the Weng 翁, and the Fan 方 lineages all together, and opera is performed for three days. 7/6: The celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the surname of Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Fang 方, and opera is performed for one day. the celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 8/20: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡, and opera is performed for three days. 9/5: The celebration of 五显马元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡, and opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 11/19: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yiqingshê 仪清社 is organized by the Fang 方, and marionette plays are performed . 11/21: The celebration of Chenxiannü 陈仙女 is organized by Xiadun 下墩 and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The numbers of spirit mediums is not predetermined, but sometimes as many as twenty men 5/ be possessed. At Yuanxiao and at god’s birthdays, one to five Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rituals 做醮. On 10/29 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. This ritual is organized by the temple management committee, who invite seven Buddhist monks and arrange for marionette plays and offerings. 8/2:Sihua sanshê (Sihua three shê ritual alliance) 泗华三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Sihua is located on the northern bank of the Sihua Weir 泗华陂北端. This area was part of the Yanshou yangxipu 延寿洋 西铺 (police/defense unit) of Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Shihua 使华 was settled, and in the Qing it branched out into the villages of Xiazheng 下郑 and Kongzhaizhuang 孔宅庄. These villages are now managed by the Sihua Administrative Village 泗华行政村. The temple ritual system is primarily divided into the three she-altars of Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiazheng 下郑 and Kongli 孔里. The Xian zushê 溪安祖社 temple, located in Xiazheng 下郑 village, is the main temple of the Sihua three shê alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each shê would go the Xian zushê to invite the gods to go on a procession to each ritual territory, but these collective processions and rites have not been revived. 
V426 Dingcuo 顶厝 1. Village settlement The population of Dingcuo is approximately 500 people.Sihua sanshê ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李and the Wei 魏. 3. Village temples Xian shangshê 溪安上社 was built during the Republican period, and renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Wangfu yuanjun 王府元君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Xian shangshê 溪安上社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V427 Xiazheng 下郑 1. Village settlement The population of Xiazheng is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xiao 肖. The Xiao originates from the Xiao mountains 萧山 of Zhejiang 浙江. They migrated here from Xiaocuo 肖厝 of Huian 惠安 during the late Qing. They are divided into eight branches, and originally had an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Xian zushê 溪安祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Deqingci 德庆祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xiangxianci 香贤祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. SJCDCB, 1992: 6 records twenty-two initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 the gods of Xian zushê 溪安祖社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V428 Kongli 孔里 1. Village settlement Kongli was originally known as Kongzhaizhuang 孔 宅庄. Kongli village includes Kongli 孔里 and Beipu 陂埔, and was originally known as the Kong Tianzhuang 孔氏田庄 of Hanjiang 涵江. The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Wulongmiao 五龙庙, Xidongshê 溪东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Beipusi Buddhist temple 陂埔寺 is located in Beipu 陂埔 (PTZJZCG, 1992:201). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Wulongmiao 五 龙庙 and Xidongshê 五龙庙 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/08: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On this occasion, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A098 Yangxi sijia (Yangxi four jia ritual alliance) 洋西四甲 The four jia ritual alliance of Yangxi is located within the Sihua Weir irrigation system 泗华陂, near the mountainous western edge of the northern irrigated plain. This region was part of the Yanshou yangxipu 延寿洋西铺 (police/defense unit) of the Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the Yangxi four jia ritual alliance village of Beichen 北辰 was settled, and in the Qing it divided into Yangxi 洋西 and Shandou 山兜 villages. Currently, there are the three natural villages of Shangdun 上墩, Xiadun 下墩 and Shandou 山兜 in this region, all of which are managed by the Yangxi Administrative Village 洋西行政村. Recently a new highway has cut through the region, cutting a swath through some of the villages. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis primarily of residence and lineage into four jia ritual associations. The Beichen zushê 北辰祖社 temple, located in Yangxi 洋西 village, is the main temple fo the four jia alliance. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year during Yuanxiao, the gods of the main temple and the founding shê altar are invited to go on a procession through all the villages of the alliance. (
V429 Yangxi 洋西) 1. Village settlement Yangxi village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangdun 上墩 and Xiadun 下墩. The population is approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖and the Wu 吴. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 the Lin 林, the Song 宋 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Beichen zushê 北辰祖社, Beichen zumiao 北辰祖 庙: This temple was built during the Xianfeng period (1851–1861) and was rebuilt in 1987. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 2) Caihuidong 彩辉洞: The main god is 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Dage 大哥. 3) Sanshantang 三山堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. SJCDCB, 1992:9 records 38 initiates. 4) Jingangsi Buddhist temple 金刚寺 was rebuilt in Kangxi 19 (1680) (PTZJZCG, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 the gods of Beichen zushê 北辰祖社 and Beichen zumiao 北辰祖庙 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by Shangdun 上墩. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Shangdun 上墩. The birthday celebration of Sange sheren 三哥舍人 is organized by the Wu 吴of Shangdun 上墩. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xiao 肖in Xiadun 下墩. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Shangdun 上墩. 11/05: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/13:Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement The population of Shandou is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the You 游. Other surnames groups include the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 and Yongxingshê 永兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Sange sheren 三哥舍人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Zhongjun 中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10 the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sange sheren 三哥舍人. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu feren 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A099 Houzhuo qijing (Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance) 后卓七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Houzhuo is located at the feet of the Jiuhua Mountains 九华山. The main source of water and irrigation is the water diverted by the Xia Wuziba dam 下吴仔坝. This area was part of Houzhuo zhaidoupu 后卓宅兜铺 (police/defense unit) of Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the village of Houzhuo was settled, and in the Qing the village of Zhaidou 宅兜 separated off. Currently the area contains the villages of Houdun后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Taofeng 桃峰, Shangguo 上郭 and Xiating 下亭. All these villages are managed through the Houzhuo Administrative Village 后卓行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to residence and lineage into seven ritual territories. The Lukougong 路口宫 temple, located in Houzhuo Huangqipo 后卓黄 岐坡 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods of Lukougong are Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃, while the secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Mayang zungong 马洋尊公. It is said that Lukougong 路口宫 was first built during the Song and collapsed during the mid-Ming. Each ritual alliance competed in wanting to take the statues of the gods back into their respective villages to offer their respects and worship. The temple was later rebuilt in a different location, but was completely torn down again during the Cultural Revolution. The temple was then rebuilt again in 1985 at the current location. Currently, this temple is the center of ritual action for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Houzhuo which includes Houdun 后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Taofeng 桃峰, Shangguo 上郭, Xiating 下亭, Donghu 洞湖, and Xiguo 西锅. As for such villages as Baidu 白杜, Qixi 企溪 and Xilou 下楼, they have developed into a relatively independent ceremonial systems, namely the ten-fold shê of Xibai 溪白十社 and the Donghu four village ritual alliance 洞湖四村. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance was part of the red banner alliance. 
V431 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun is divided into the three neighborhoods (jing 境) of Daxing 大星, Qingfeng 庆丰, and Lantian 蓝田. The entire village has more than 1000 people. Apart from agriculture, the local people live on the many fruit trees such as lychee trees and and waxberry trees. Many also work in shoe manufacturing factories. There is also economic support from their relatives overseas (Chinese overseas and Chinese in Taiwan). 2. Surname groups The entire village is mostly of the Wu surname group 吴, encompassing approximately 700 people. There are also a minority of the Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance Zheng 郑, Zhu 朱, and Xu 许. The Wu are from Jindun 金墩 and Tiezao 铁灶 in Hanjiang 涵江. They moved to Houdun, according to legend, during the Song Dynasty. Currently, the Wu in the village are divided into three branches, the Jiyu branch 季玉, Jinan branch 季南, and the Jifeng branch 季风房, of which the Jifeng branch has relatively more people, coming close to 300 people. The ancestral hall of the Wu is used as a storage room. The Wu are mostly spread out in two neighborhoods: Lantian 兰田 and Qingfeng 庆丰. 3. Village temples 1) Lukougong 路口宫 is the main temple for Houzhuo 后卓, Taofeng 桃峰, Donghu 洞湖, Xiamei 下美, Baidu 白杜, Xialou 霞楼, and Qixi 企溪. The temple was first built in the Song Dynasty, and was rebult in 1985 and later rebuilt again in a different location. The main god worshipped is Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Right altar, secondary gods: Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar, secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian yuanshuai 齐天元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Houzhuo Zhongshan xiaoyoushê 后卓境中山孝友社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝. Secondary gods: Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Dong 董, Ge 葛, and Zhou jiangjun 周将军. 3) Damafu 大妈府: Main gods: Cui 崔, Yang 杨, and Li 李 dama 大妈. 4) Xingshansi Buddhist temple 兴山寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 5) Lukoutang Buddhist hall 路口堂 was built in 1920 (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12 (taking turns with Qiandun 前墩), Huang 黄 and Chen erdian jiangjun 陈二殿将军 are invited to go on procession within the four neighborhoods of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Daxing 大星, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Qingfeng 庆丰, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/7: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Lantian 蓝田, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/28: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance. No opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and the celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 5. Ritual groups Each year one Xianglao 乡老 elder from each neighborhood is selected, four in total, to organize ritual activities of the year. Some Xianglao elders can tell fortunes 占卜 and chant spells 念咒. 11/11:Xiating 下亭 1. Village settlement The current population of Xiating is more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. According to the Zheng, their ancestors emigrated from Zhuangbian 庄边 of Putian 莆田, because Houzhuo 后卓 used to be barren hills and they settled there while trying to reclaim the land. Others say that they emigrated from Chenmendou 辰门兜 of the inner city of Putian 莆田. The Zheng currently are divided into two neighborhoods in the village, that is, more than 400 people in Xiating and more than 300 people in Daxing 大星 of Houdun 后墩. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing zushê 龙兴祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 2) Anminfu 安民府 is dedicated to Daye 大爷. 3) Mingyingci 明应祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12, villagers participate in the procession of the Zheng 郑 and Wu 吴 lineages of Houdun 后墩 in rotation with the Xu 许 and Lin 林 lineages of Qiandun 前墩 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 5/6: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration was originally in the 7th lunar month, but it was brought up to the 6th day of the 5th lunar since the waxberries ripen during this time and villagers make money selling the waxberries during the celebrations. Opera can be performed. 
V433 Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement The entire village has a population of more than 700 people. Apart from agriculture, local people earn a living through rais- ing lychees, brick making, carpentry, and working in shoe manufacturing factories. 2. Surname groups The village was originally dominated by the Zhang 张, but now it is dominated by the Xu 许 and the Lin 林. The Xu used to be the long-term workers for the Zhang surname group. For unknown reasons, the Zhang no longer live in the village. The Xu make up three quarters of the entire population of the village, while the Lin make up one quarter. The origins of the Xu are unclear, nonetheless, formerly Xu surnamed people from Xudi 许地 in the Jiewai 界外 (areas subjected to coastal evacuation) visited Qiandun and claimed to share the same ancestors. It is said that during the Ming Dynasty, there were two high ministers (shangshu) 尚书 from Putian 莆田 at the court, one from Xibai 溪白 surnamed Fang 方 and the other by the surname of Xu from Qiandun village. When they were returning to their homes, a dispute arose as they both wanted to use the water from a stream at the foot of the Jiuhuashan mountain 九华山. Minister Xu wanted to use the stream for irrigation purposes while Minister Fang wanted to use it for making tea. The result of the dispute was to drill a hole in the rock that would allow only a small amount of the water to flow to Xibai, while the majority of the water flowed to irrigate the agricultural fields of Qiandun 前墩. This dispute made Minister Fang very angry and vengeful. He threw a lot of weapons into a deep pond located in the mountains behind Qiandun. Then he went to the emperor and told him that Minister Xu was preparing to overthrow the reign of the emperor by making weapons and assembling armies. When the emperor sent people to verify these claims, they found many weapons in the deep pond near Qiandun. Thus minister Xu and all his relations to the third degree were killed. One descendant of Minister Xu fled to the Jiewai 界外 (land beyond the limits). They added two strokes in front of the Xu character (许) so it became Xu (冫许 ). This is the reason behind the Xu (冫许) people coming to Houzhuo 后卓 to identify their common ancestry. The Xu 许 are divided into four branches in the village: first branch 头房, second branch 二房, third branch 三房, and fourth branch 四房. Among the branches, the second has the most people as well as an ancestral hall, which is now used as a storage center for straw. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongshan xiaoyoushê 中山孝友社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Dong 董, Ge 葛, and Zhou jiangjun 周将军. 2) Longxinggong 龙兴宫: Main god: Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanghei jiangjun 黄黑将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 3) Juhangting 聚沆亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12, the villagers take turns with Houdun 后墩 village to invite Huang 黄 and Chen 陈二殿将军 erdian jiangjun, four statues in total, to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and one Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct Jiao rituals 做醮 for two nights. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/19, 6/19, and 9/19: the birthday celebrations for Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days each time. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/18: the birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Lantian 蓝田, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contributions for the opera performance are partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题 缘 and partly by collecting on a per capita basis. 
V434 Shangguo 上郭 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. Apart from agriculture, the local people live on the many fruit trees and by brick-making. 2. Surname groups The Guo 郭 makes up 90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Li 李, the Lin 林, and the Zheng 郑. The Guo are related to those in Hetang 柯塘 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off from the Longxingshê of Xiating village 下亭龙兴社 in Xianfeng 9 (1859): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Huoshen jiangjun 火神将军, Hushen jiangjun 虎神将军, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯 is held. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contribution for the opera performances is partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题缘. The directors of these ritual events 主持人 are selected by rotation according to their age, two per year. Taofeng 桃峰 1. Village settlement The entire village has a population of approximately 800 people. Their sidelines include fruit trees (lychee), shoe manufacturing factories as well as financial aid from Taiwan and overseas. 2. Surname groups The population of the entire village is 40% Chen 陈 and 25% Guo 郭. The Chen 陈 have some 300 people. One group are descendents of the Geli Chen 隔厘陈 who emigrated from Donghu 洞湖. This group has an ancestral hall in the village. The other group of Chen are called the Yingshui Chen 颖水陈, and emigrated from Kuokou 阔口. These latter Chen are divided into the first branch, second branch, third branch and fourth branch, of which the fourth has the most people, making up approximately one third of the total population of the surname group. The Guo 郭 have approximately 100 people. They emigrated from Guozhuang 郭庄 near Wujiang river 吴江. The Guo are also divided into four branches. The following miscellaneous surname groups are also found in the village: the Fang 方, the Weng 翁, the Lin 林, the Wu 吴, the Shi 施, the Huang 黄, the Yan 颜, the Cheng 程 and the Gao 高. 3. Village temples 1) Jianxingshê 建兴社 was built dring the Qing Tongzhi period (1862–1874). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Right: Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Baoandian 保安殿: Main god: Jin daren 金大人. Secondary gods: Lan daren 蓝大人, Huo daren 火大人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Yuanmingtang 园明堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Right: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhang gong 张公. Left: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Middle: Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. Front: Xuantan gong 玄坛公, Weituo 韦陀. 4) Cihangting 慈航亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guangong dijun 关圣帝君, Wuqu xingjun 武曲星君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Xinshantang 信善堂 was built in Guangxu period (1875–1909). The temple was renovated in 1987. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Dizangwang 地藏王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀. Side hall: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–13, all the gods in the shê temple are carried around on procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/5: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Baoandian 保安 殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/19 and 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. Opera is not performed. The offerings are set out by the Xinshantang 信善堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 6/3: The birthday celebration of Weituo 韦陀 is held. Opera is not performed, The offerings are set out by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjuin 张公圣君 is held with opera performances. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 8/5: The birthday celebration of Lan daren 蓝大人 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Baoandian 保安殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contributions for the opera performance are partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题缘 and partly by collecting on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Hosts/managers of the event: Each year five Xianglao 乡老 are selected as managers, plus a few young people to aid in fundraising. 
A100 Xibai shishê (Xibai ten shê ritual alliance) 溪白十社 The ten shê alliance of Xibai is located at the base of the Jiuhua 九华山 mountains, and mostly draws its water from the Sihua Weir 泗华陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Baidupu (police/defense unit) 白杜铺 of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the villages of 白杜, Xipu 溪埔 and Dongban 东坂 were settled. In the Qing, the villages of Xiawei下 尾, Xiaxi 下溪, Xialiu下刘 and Qixi 企溪 separated off. Currently, approximately 5000 people live in the villages of the alliance, and they are managed by the Xibai Administrative Village 溪白行政村. Apart from agriculture, the local people earn a living by raising lychees, forestry, carpentry, as contractors, and as workers. The temple ritual system is divided up according to settlements and lineage into ten shê ritual associations. Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, located in Baidu 白杜 village, is the ancestral founding shê 祖社 of Xibai 溪白, while Beijidian 北极殿 in Luding 路顶 village is the main temple for Xibai 溪白. Each year on lunar 1/15, the ten shê of Xibai collectively celebrate the Yuanxiao festival, and take the gods of Xiaoyoushê and Beijidian on a procession to all the she-altars of the alliance. The ritual leaders of each shê are selected in rotation on the basis of age, while the director of the Xiaoyoushê is determined by casting divination blocks. A minority of villagers are Christians. The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Yao 姚. Other surnames include the Shen 沈, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Fang 方, and Li 李. The Lin, making up 30% of the population of Xibai, are mainly living in Tangbian, Gelong 隔垄 as well as in other villages. It is said that they came to Putian during the Huang Chao Revolt 黄巢起义 during the late Tang Dynasty. The Lin lineage is divided into four branches: Jun 君, Zi 子, Ju 居, and Li 利. The Zi branch has the most people, with approximately 450 people. They originally had an ancestral hall, but now it has been converted into a school. The Yao mainly live in Xiatou 下头 and Hantou 汉头, and make up 20% of the entire village population. They are divided into two lineage branches: Qian 乾 and Kun 坤. The Kun branch is the bigger one, and is subdivided into four sub-branches: Ren 仁, Yi 义, Shê 社, and Zhi 智. It is said that their founding ancestor first came to Puwei 浦尾 of Hanjiang 涵江 to Xibai 溪白. Their ancestral tombs are in Sanshan 三山, and there is a lineage genealogy. Xibai ten shê ritual alliance Historically, the Fang lineage of Baidu 白杜方氏 was a prominent local lineage with many successful examination candidates. Over the Ming, they produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and ten Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Song Chunxi 14 (1187), a Zhuangyuan (First place) memorial archway was erected for Fanghao 方镐, who had received the top award in the special examinations 特科第一名立“状元”牌坊. In Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Shuanggui 双 桂牌坊 memorial archway for two Fang brothers who had passed the exams. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460), a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for one Fangkui 方逵 . In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441), a Liuqing 流庆牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Di 方迪. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the ten shê alliance of Xibai was part of the black banner alliance. 
V436 Baidu 白杜 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing 杜塘境 Beijidian 北极殿, Xiaoyoushê 孝友社. It is said that this temple was called the Xiangying temple 祥应庙 in the Song dynasty. A stele from the Ming is preserved in the temple 明方 良永谕祭碑. The main gods are: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. A stele composed in Shaoxing 8 (1138) by Fang Lue 方略 entitled 有宋兴化军祥应庙记 (Record of the Temple of Auspicious Response of the Xinghua Commandery in the Song dynasty) describes a large temple in this village about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:11, No. 14). This stele is preserved at the Putian History Museum on the grounds of the former Dongyueguan. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and the Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuntian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes this event as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capital basis. 10/25: The village celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V437 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing Fangshishê, Tianhougong 杜塘境方石 社, 天后宫 is co-owned with Gelong 隔垄 village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions: On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized cooperatively with Gelong 隔垄, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from both villages. On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V438 Gelong 隔垄 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 425 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Guanyinge 观音阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Daguansi Buddhist temple 大观寺 was rebuilt in 1983 (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized cooperatively with Tangbian 塘边, and funds are collected on a per capita basis in both villages. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V439 Luding 路顶 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Yu 俞, and Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangfushê 祥福社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten- shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the entire ten shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V440 Xiaxi 下溪 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 900 people. The village is divided into Wucuo 吴厝 and Huangcuo 黄厝. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Huang 黄. The minor surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 信兴社 (which belongs to Wucuo 吴厝) was built in Qianlong 41 (1776), revived in 1986 and rebuilt in 2004. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wenlin shuipo 文临水婆, Huang jiangjun 黄将军. Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯 and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. 2) Anning shangshê 安宁上社 (which belongs to Huangcuo 黄厝) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulie jiangjun 武烈将军. 3) Qingshantang 庆善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary god is Zheng daren 郑大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Huang 黄 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临 水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. This is organized by the Huang lineage based in Anning shangshê 安宁上社. On 1/14 the Wu 吴 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 to go on procession within the village. This is organized by the Wu 吴 lineage based in Xinxingshê 信兴社. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession around all the ten shê. On all these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual mas   ters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by Xiaoyou shê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V441 Xiatou 下头 1. Village settlement Xiatou was originally known as Xia Liu 下刘. The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yang 杨 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Zongxingshê 总兴社 was built in Qianlong 42 (1777). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Bao hougong 保侯公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Xu daren 徐大人, Cigan tianfei 慈感天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯 and Shengya jiangjun 圣牙将军. 2) Shenglong shuyuan 升云书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Longhutang 龙华堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Lanfu daren 兰府大人 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Damingtang 大明堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to all the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V442 Qixi 企溪 1. Village settlement The village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhuo 卓. The other surname groups are the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘 and the Zeng曾. 3. Village temples Anpingshê 安平社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 and Cigan tianfei 慈感天妃, 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V443 Hantou 汉头 1. Village settlement Hantou is also known as Xiangtou 巷头. The village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. The other surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Ou 欧. 3. Village temples 1) Aning zushê 安宁祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 2) Huayuantang 华源堂 was built in 1986. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Tiangong dadi 天宫大帝, Shuigong dadi 水宫大帝, Digong dadi 地宫大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 celebrations are held with opera. A procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14 and 7/16: Celebrations are held for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The offerings are set out by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 1/15, 7/15, and 10/15: Celebrations are held for the Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 of Heaven, Earth and Water. The offerings are set out by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Xiaoyoushê 孝 友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V444 Gushan 古山 1. Village settlement The village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples Longxingshê 隆兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 元宵仪式: On 1/13 the gods of the Longxingshê 隆兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Longxingshê 龙兴社 and the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V445 Dongban 东坂 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zeng 曾 and the Shen 沈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingningshê 新宁社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Ma daren 马大人, Deng zhongjun 邓中军, Wang zhongjun 王中军, Shi zhongjun 施中军. 2) Longxinggong 龙兴宫: Main god: Tianmen Zhu zhizun 天门朱至尊. 3) Longhuatang 龙华堂: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 of the Xingningshê 兴宁社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Xingningshê 兴宁社 and Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 11/28 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One. Scripture masters 经师 and friends of Dao (Three in One initiates) 道友 recite the scriptures 念经. This rite is organized by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A101 Donghu sanshê (Donghu three shê ritual alliance) 洞湖三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Donghu is located in between the Sihua Weir 泗华陂irrigation system and the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system. The villages of this alliance rely primarily on water from springs on Jiuhua Mountain 九华山 for irrigation. This area was part of the Loutou Xianpu 楼 头溪安铺 of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Dantou 淡头 was settled. Currently the area is divided into three natural villages: Donggu 洞湖, Xiguo 西锅 and Duxi 度西, all of which are managed by the Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to settlement and lineage into three shê-associations. The Yongningshê 永宁社, located in Donghu 洞湖 village was originally the founding shê-temple of the three villages. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. It is said that formerly the three shê joined in a common procession of the gods of this temple during the Yuanxiao festival. Later, due to disputes between them, they divided up, and the collective processions and rites have not been revived. The main surname group in this area is the Li 李. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. They are divided into the upper Li branch and the lower Li branch, of which the lower Li branch is further divided into five sub-branches. The Li originally had an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy, but these were destroyed. Their lineage genealogy is similar to that of the Li of Yangwei. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three shê alliance of Donghu was part of the white banner alliance. Donghu three shê ritual alliance 
V446 Donghu 洞湖 1. Village settlement Donghu was originally called Dantou 淡头. Donghu is a part of Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The total population of Donghu is approximately 3600 people. Their main source of income is agriculture. People also work in shoe manufacturing factories. Some even have their own factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Donghu village are the Li 李, Chen 陈, Lin 林 and the Fang 方. The Li have the most people and make up 40% of the entire population. The Fang and the Chen each make up 15%. There are a number of Christian households in the village. 3. Village Temples 1) Donghu Yongningshê 洞湖境永宁社 branched off from Lukougong 路口宫 in Houzhuo 后卓. Built in the Song, this temple was rebuilt in Wanli 21 (1593), renovated in Qianlong 12 (1747), Jiaqing 21 (1816), and again in 1988. Main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and 鲁府大妈. 2) Shuifengdong 水丰洞: It is claimed that this temple was originally built in the Tang dynasty. The temple was rebuilt in the 6th lunar month of 1992. Main god: Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. There is a Ming stele about irrigation rights preserved in the temple. 3) Xianyingmiao 显应庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhencisi Buddhist temple 真慈寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/13, the Li 李 carry the incense burners of the shê-altar 社炉 to each household to practice the Dao 道. On 1/14, the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 do the same. On 1/11 and on 1/15, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 and Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Qiuliu dashi 邱刘大使, and Chenzheng jiangjun 陈郑将军 are invited to go on procession within Houzhuo 后卓, Xitianwei 西天尾 and Xian 溪安. The incense burners are invited from the main temple. Opera is performed, One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. The Li lineage and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch with one another the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/ 25 and on 1/28, there is a procession of inspection around the village including decorated horses (zouma 走马), sedan chairs of the gods, the Toufu 头福 community leaders, and various performing arts troupes. The Li and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 are held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 5/15: The birthday celebration of Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯 is held. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/13: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian.五谷神仙 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for one or two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis at a rate of 0.5 RMB/ person. The village also has some Christian families. 
V447 Xiguo 西锅 1. Village Settlement The village of Xiguo has over 100 people. 2. Surname Groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group, while the Li 李 have five households. 3. Village temples Yongxingshê 永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Sida jiangjun 四大将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao Processions On 1/11 or 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). On 1/24, there is a joint lantern procession carried out together with the Yongning xishê of Duxi village度西永宁西社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 11/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera performances and Daoist rites. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 
V448 Duxi 度西 1. Village settlement Duxi village has over 100 people. 2. Surname Groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨, although there are also a few Chen 陈 families. 3. Village temples Yongning xishê 永宁西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Jiuniangma 九娘妈. Secondary gods include Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 and Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 or 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). On 1/24, there is a joint lantern procession carried out together with the Yongxingshê 永兴社 of Xiguo 西锅 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 and Jiu niangma 九娘妈 is held with opera performances and Daoist rites. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 
A102 Fenglin qijing (Fengling sevenfold ritual alliance) 枫林七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Fenglin is located at the foot of Jihua Mountain 九华山. The main sources of irrigation in the area are from the Lianguibei Weir 联桂陂, the Xiangfeng moqianba dam 象峰磨前坝, the Xiawuzi dam 下吴仔坝, and the waters of the Guantang reservoir 官塘水源. This area was part of the Xuwupu 许吴铺, the Houpupu 厚埔铺 and the Xiangfengpu 象峰铺 (various police/defense units) of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the villages of Xiawu 下吴 and Shanghuang 上黄 were already settled. Currently the villages of Houpu 后埔 (Houpu 厚埔), Xiayu 下宇 (Xiaxu 下许), Chenglin 澄林, Guantang 官塘 (Ketang 柯塘), Kengtou 坑头, Shanghuang 上黄, Fenglin 枫林 (Linfeng 林峰), and Xitianwei 西天尾 (Xitingwei 西亭尾) can be found in this area. All of these villages are managed by the Dongxing Administrative 东星行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of the originally extant shê-temples of the region into seven ritual territories. Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, located in Linfeng 林峰 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main goddess of the temple is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the villages of the sevenfold alliance go to this temple to request incense fire 请香火. Everyday activities and larger ritual events of the temple are handled by the temple committee, made up of representatives from each of the member villages. Currently, Xitianwei 西天尾, which has become a bustling town, no longer participates in the ritual activities of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Linfeng 林峰. The proportional contribution to the costs of collective rites and processions of the remaining villages within the ritual alliance are as follows: Houpu 后埔 26%, Xiayu 下宇 24%, Chenglin 澄林 13%, Guantang 官塘 12%, Kengtou 坑头 3%, Shanghuang 上黄 7%, and Linfeng 林峰 15%. Fengling Qijing sevenfold ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Chenglin 澄林 was part of the black banner alliance, while the other villages were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V449 Houpu 后埔 1. Village settlement The current population is 1500 people. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Fruit trees provide a significant proportion of the economic income. The main types of fruit trees are dragon eyes, bananas, and loquats. The entire village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qiangan 前干, Dinggan 顶干, and Hougan 后干. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱, the Lin 林 and the You 游 are the main surname groups. The Xu 许 and the Chen 陈 each have more than ten households. The Weng 翁 have only one household. The Li 李 have three households and the Liu 刘 have five households. It is said that the Lin are from Shandong province 山东. They maintain the Tangmei (Lin) ancestral hall 唐美祠堂. The Zhu came from Jingpu 井埔 of Huangshi 黄石. The You claim to have originated from Pingguangjun 广平郡 of Henan province 河南. They are divided into six branches and have been in the village for more than ten generations. 3. Village temples 1) Houpujing Longxing yishê 后埔境隆兴义社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Guiputan 圭埔坛 (Guipu shuyuan 圭埔书院): Main gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Qingliandong 青廉洞: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Taishipingsi Buddhist temple 太史坪寺 was rebuilt in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14 Qiangan 前干, Hougan 后干, and Dinggan 顶干 take turns to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Li daren 李大人, and Wei daren 魏大人 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/22–23, the Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rite is celebrated. Lanterns go on procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V450 Shanghuang 上黄 1. Village settlement The entire village has a total of 154 people living in 26 households. Agriculture is the main livelihood. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the main surname group. Minor surnames include the Cai 蔡 in one household, and the Ou 欧 in 3 households. The Huang came from Putian city. They are related to the Chizhu Huang lineage of the eastern part of Putian city 赤柱黄. In Shanghuang village, the Huang are divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Shanghuang Anning zhongshê 上黄境安宁忠社 was rebuilt both in Qing Tongzhi 5 (1866) and in 1990. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Ruiyun gong 瑞云宫 was rebuilt in 1983. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, villagers go to the Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫 to invite back the incense burners. These are then are taken to every household in the village to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/15 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 are invited to go on procession within the village. Then lanterns are carried in a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V451 Linfeng 林峰 1. Village settlement The village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cheng 程. It is said that the Cheng emigrated from Jindun Tiezao 金墩铁灶 in Hanjiang 涵江. The minor surname group is the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫 was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 6 (1801) and renovated in 1984. Main god: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Secondary gods: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Fenglin Qingningshê 枫林境庆宁社 was renovated in 1987. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wugu daxian 五谷大仙. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Jicuian Buddhist shrine 积翠庵 was originally built in the Tang by monk Baoguang 宝光. In the Song, the monk Xingguo 兴国 rebuilt the temple. In Wanli 15 (1587), the monk Huixing 慧性 rebuilt the temple. In Kangxi 20 (1681) the monk Haiding rebuilt the temple. (PTZJZCG, 1992:214) 4) Yuyunsi Buddhist temple 寓云寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:214) 5) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. SJCDCB, 1992:36 records fifty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the main alliance temple of Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V452 Kengbian 坑边 1. Village settlement This small village has approximately 150 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Yixingshê 义兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Mayang zungong 马洋 尊公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Baifu daren 白府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingyundong 庆云洞: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 of the main alliance temple, the Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V453 Kengtou 坑头 1. Village settlement Kengtou is divided into Shangkengtou 上坑头 and Xiakengtou 下坑头. The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qinglong zushê 青龙祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Baifu daren 白府大人 and Jinyu tongzi 金玉童子. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the main alliance temple Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V454 Chenglin 澄林 1. Village settlement Chenglin is divided into seven neighborhoods: Xiangli 巷里, Cuowei 厝尾, Wengcuo 翁厝, Wucuo 吴厝, Zawu 杂吴, Dongpaichen 东牌陈, and Qianding 乾顶. The entire village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups 70% are of the Chen 陈 surname group. There are also more than sixty Lin 林 households, twelve Weng 翁 households, seventeen Wu 吴 households, and thirty Huang 黄 households. The Chen are the Chen of Dongyang 东阳陈 of Chengxiang 城厢 outside Putian city. The Weng came from Meilan 美兰 in Beigao 北高. The Lin claim to be related to the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 of Wushi 乌石 in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Chenglinjing Fulongshê 澄林境浮龙社 was originally built in Qianlong 22 (1757). The temple was destroyed in 1959, and rebuilt in 1987. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugu daxian 五谷大仙, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tielu zungong 铁炉 尊公, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军. 2) Yuanyingdian 元应殿 was rebuilt in 1985. Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 (main god), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chendaye 陈大爷. 3) Xinglongdong 兴隆洞: Main god: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 4) Wangfutang 万福堂: Main god: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Dongfu dage 董府大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers go to the main alliance temple, the Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫, to invite the incense burners back to their village, where they are taken to every household in the village to practice the Dao 行道. A procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕灯游境. On 1/15, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tielu zungong 铁炉尊公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊 公, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Lanterns are taken on a procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 is held. 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Xiayu 下宇 1. Village settlement Xiayu was originally called Xiaxu 下许. Xiayu village is divided into two neighborhoods: Kejiao 柯角 and Youjiao 游角. There are currently more than 1000 people living in the village. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Other activities include female workers working in shoe manufacturing factories, carpentry and brick laying. 2. Surname groups The main surname group of Kejiao is Ke 柯, while the main surname group of Youjiao is You 游. Other surnames include the Qian 钱, Guo 郭, and the Zeng 曾. It is said that the Ke 柯氏 emigrated from Kezhu 柯朱 in Lingchuan 灵川 in Kangxi 32 (1693). 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong dawang 都统大王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Zhongtianci 中天祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 100 initiates. 3) Qimingtang 启明堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi观音大士. Secondary god: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–15: Dutong dawang 都统大王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, two fushou 福首 are selected to be in charge of holding the incense burners and organizing the zongjiaofan 棕轿饭 (feast for the palm sedan chair bearers). Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/24: The birthday celebration of Dutong dawang 都统大王. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Zhongtianci 中天祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Guantang 官塘 1. Village settlement Guantang is also known as Ketang 柯塘. Guantang village is divided into three neighborhoods: Dingcuo 顶厝, Xincuoli 新厝里, and Changcheng 长埕. The entire village has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The entire village shares the surname Guo 郭, and is of the Hui ethnic group 回族. According to local legend, as recounted by lineage elders, the ancestors of the Guo originally lived in Gushi 固始 of the Henan province 河南. During the period of Tang Yizong (860–874) their founding ancestor Master Song 嵩公 entered Fujian province to settle in the Zhi Mountains of Changle 长乐芝山 (also known as Guokeng 郭坑), During the Kaiping period of the Latter Liang (907–911), Master Xun 询公 entered Xianyou 仙游 and lived in Dafeibei 大蜚山. During the Song period, Master Weigao 惟高公 moved to Gudai 郭埭 village of Weitang 魏塘 in Putian. During the Song Shaoxing period (1131–1162), Master Yaoruo 尧若公 moved to Cangzhou 沧州 (also called Guocang 郭沧 or Guozhuang 郭庄). During the mid-Yuan, Master Gou 垢公 moved to Wushi 乌石. During the late Ming, Master Bofeng 伯凤公 moved to Dingcuo 顶厝 in Guantang 官塘. In the early Qing, Master Jingshun 景顺公 moved from Caopu 草埔 to Xincuoli 新厝里 of Guantang 官塘. The above mentioned ancestors are the two main lines of origin of the Guo 郭 in Guantang village 官塘村. 3. Village temples 1) Anren shê 安仁社 branched off from Anren zushê 安仁祖社 of Xitianwei 西天尾 during the late Ming. In Qianlong 35 (1770), Master Xuebo 学博公 raised funds and built the temple. The temple was renovated in 1986 and was rebuilt in 1995. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Mayang zungong 马洋 尊公, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Dutong dawang 都统大王. 2) Baiyundong 白云洞 is dedicated to Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–15 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 天上圣母, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Dutong dawang 都统大王 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V457 Xitianwei 西天尾 1. Village settlement Xitianwei was originally called Xitingwei 西亭尾 and was a center of exchange for goods from the mountainous regions of Putian 莆田 and goods from the plains. There currently are more than 5000 people living in the market town. Their main livelihood is commerce and agriculture. Other livelihoods include female workers working in shoe manufacturing factories and commercial trading. 2. Surname groups Wei 魏, Shi 施, Cai 蔡, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Wu 吴, Weng 翁, Ke 柯, and Zhu 朱. It is said that Xitianwei village originally only had three surnames (that is, the Wei 魏, Shi 施, and Cai 蔡). The Chen 陈, Lin 林, and Wu 吴 emigrated from Houzhuo 后卓. The Weng 翁, Ke 柯, and Zhu 朱 moved here after the founding of the PRC, and are considered to be new settlers. 3. Village temples Xiawujing 霞梧境 Anren zushê 安仁祖社: It is said that in the past, only twenty-seven households built this shê. Lin Chongbao 林崇宝 volunteered land and money to build the temple. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 55 (1790), and was renovated in the 1990s. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Dutong zunwang 都统尊王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军 and Zoufu daren 邹府大人. 2) Rendean 仁德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Dutong zunwang 都统尊王 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/13: The birthday of Cuifu daren 邹府大人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A103 Chengzhu liushê (Chengzhu six shê ritual alliance) 澄渚六社 The six shê ritual alliance of Chengzhu is located in between the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system and the Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Chengzhu Donghuangpu (police/defense unit) 澄渚东黄铺 of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the village of Chengzhu was settled, and belonged to the Rendeli sub-canton, but it was reassigned to the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里 in the Qing. In the late Qing the villages of Miaoqian 庙前, Yuli 俞里, Shuiliuli 水流利, Banludian 半路店, Donghuang 东黄, and Xiazheng 霞郑 separated off. The current population is about 3000 people, and these villages are managed by the Chengzhu Administrative Village 澄渚行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of originally existing shê-temples into six shê. Apart from agriculture, the current source of income includes fields of lychee trees, fields of dragon eye trees, carpentry, stone-quarrying, and working in shoe manufacturing factories. The Ningchangmiao 宁昌庙 temple, located in Yuli 俞里 village, is the main temple of the six shê ritual alliance. The main god is Chifeng weiwu shenghou 敕封威武圣侯. It is said that formerly, on irregular occasions, the god was invited to go on a procession through the six shê of the alliance, but currently these collective processions have not been restored. Historically, the two surnames of Yu 俞 and Zheng 郑 were prominent lineages with successful examination graduates. In the Ming this area produced four Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twelve Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), a Panlong 攀龙牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Yu lineage 俞. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Miaoqian 庙前 village was part of the black banner alliance, while all the other villages were part of the white banner alliance. 
V458 Miaoqian 庙前 1. Village settlement The entire village has over 1000 people 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Li 李, Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Zheng 郑. The Chen make up 50% of the population of the entire village, and are the Chen of Yuhu 玉湖陈 (the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈). The Chen in the village are divided into three branches: Fu 福, Lu 禄, and Shou 寿, of which the Shou branch has the most people, with approximately 300 people. Chengzhu six shê ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Ningxingshê 宁兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 2) Shuiwudian 水武殿 is dedicated to Jiangdaren 江大人, Tiandaren 田大人, Zhaodaren 赵大人, Wang daren 王大人 and Baidaren 白大人. The secondary god is Majiangjun 马将军. 3) Bishuidong 碧水洞 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 4) Deben shuyuan 德本书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 120 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by four village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of the gods of Shuiwudian 水武殿 is held with marionette opera. 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V459 Yuli 俞里 1. Village settlement The village has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yu 俞, Chen 陈, and Yang 杨. The Yu 俞 make up 90% of the population. The Yu are divided into four branches: Xincuoli 新厝里, Datingli 大厅里, Xiacuoli 下厝里, and Lishengli 立生里, of which Xincuoli has the most people, making up more than half of the total population. The Yu have a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Ningchangmiao 宁昌庙 is also know as Tiyunzhai 梯云斋. Main god: imperially enfeoffed 敕封 Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯. Secondary gods: (left) Lubu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, (right) Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianpeng yuanshuai 天蓬元帅. The temple preserves a stele composed in Hongzhi 13 (1500) by Yu Rongyuan 俞榕原 entitled 梯云斋记 (Record of the Studio of the Ladder of Clouds) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:130, No. 111). 2) Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 3) Xinbentang 信本堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records fifty initiates. 4) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 record forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself. Every year, these events are organized by two village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by Xinbentang 信本堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V460 Xiazheng 霞郑 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300–400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. Currently, the village is divided into four groups, and each group has approximately the same number of people. There is an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. The village once produced an imperial censor 御史 surnamed Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Longjin dongshê 龙津东社 branched from Longkengshê 龙坑社. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Zhang gong 张公, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Huang daren 黄大人, Jiang daren 江大人, Liu dutong 柳都统, Jin dutong 金都统, Jixiang maojiang 吉祥茂将, Mafu shenjiang 马府神将. 2) Deshengtang 德胜堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Huang daren 黄大人 Jiang daren 江大人, Liu dutong 柳都统, Jin dutong 金都统, Jixiang maojiang 吉祥茂将, Mafu shenjiang 马府神将 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V461 Shuiliuli 水流利 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Han 韩, Zhu 朱, Xie 谢, and Chen 陈. The Zhu has the most people with approximately 300 members. The Zhu emigrated from Dongzhu 东洙 of Huangshi 黄石 a few hundred years ago. In the village, the Yao are divided into two branches: Yi 义 and Kun 坤. Later on, Yi and Kun each developed into two sub-branches, and each sub-branch has approximately the same number of people. The Xie has more than sixty people, and they emigrated from Daitou 埭头. The Xie are divided into five branches, of which the second branch has the most people. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off (divided incense) from Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Wubentang 务本堂 (the Zhu 朱): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records ninety initiates. 3) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 (the Xie 谢): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 are invited to go on processions within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by two village elders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. At the end of the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by the Wubentang 务本堂 and the Zongkongtang 宗孔堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V462 Banludian 半路店 1. Village settlement The village has 200–300 people. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 makes up more than 95% of the population of the village. The Yao 姚 moved here from Chongqin 冲沁 to open a shop, and a village developed from there, taking the name of the shop for the village name (“shop halfway down the road”). The Yao of the village are divided into six branches: Songshuxia 松树下, Jiucuo 旧厝, Gebicuo 隔壁厝, Yuanding 园顶, Xiazhangcuo 下张厝, and Cuobian 厝边, of which Jiucuo has the most people, with approximately 50% of the entire population. 3. Village temples Wanxingshê 万兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Jinfu daren 金府大人, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽 尊王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神 are invited to go on procession within the village and lanterns are paraded. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is hosted by two village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 11/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all the above occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V463 Donghuang 东黄 1. Village settlement The village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yao 姚, Huang 黄, Zhu 朱, Guo 郭, Wang 王, and Lin 林. The Yao emigrated from Chongqin 冲沁 in Hanjiang 涵江, while the Huang emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞 (Huangxiang) of Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Longjingong 龙津宫, 龙津东社 Longjinggong, Longjing dongshe: Main gods Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jinfu zhongjun 金府中军. 2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 3) Longjintan 龙津坛 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4) Mingshangong 名山宫 is dedicated to Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 5) Shuiyueting 水月亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Yaodaoci 瑶岛祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is dedicated to 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhu 朱 invite Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Tiangong yuanshuai 中天大圣 to go on procession. On 1/14 the Yao 姚, Huang 黄, and Guo 郭 invite the same gods to go on procession. On 1/15 the Wang 王 and the Lin 林 invite the same gods to go on processions. On 1/26–29 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 11/23: The birthday celebration of Jinfu zhongjun 金府中军 is held. On all occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A104 Longshan qijing (Longshan sevenfold ritual alliance) 龙山七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Longshan is located in between the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system and the Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Loutou xi’anpu 楼头溪安铺 and the Chenglinpu 澄林铺 (police/defense units) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the early Qing the villages of Daqiaotou 大桥头, Zhenxia 圳下, Xi’an 溪 安, Houting 后亭, Xishan 西山, Beishan 北山 and Wushi 乌石 were settled. After the founding of the PRC, the villages of Xincun 新村 and Dongzhen 东圳 were created to house villagers evacuated to make way for the creation of the Dongzhen Reservoir. The current population of the entire area is approximately 2400 people. All these villages are managed by the Longshan Administrative Village 龙山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê temples into seven ritual territories. Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, located in Xincun 新村 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. This temple is also a central temple for a smaller region. The main goddess is Imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual territories of the alliance come to the temple to present incense, and to invite the goddess back to their village to go on a procession around the village boundaries. And each year around the birthdate of Tianshang shenmu, the villagers of the region will go to the temple to sponsor opera performances. Every twelve years, Tianshang shengmu is taken on a procession through all the villages of the ritual alliance. The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, and the Yang 杨. The Huang, making up more than 60% of the total population of the sevenfold ritual alliance, live in Beishan 北山, Daqiaotou 大桥头, Wushi Longshan sevenfold ritual alliance 乌石, and Zhenxia 圳下. It is said that the Huang moved to the village from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and are divided into five branches, of which the third branch has the most people, making up approximately 50% of the total population of the Huang. The Lin are mainly living in Wushi 乌石. There is a Jiumu zuci 九牧祖祠 Lin ancestral hall which is said to date to the Tang Dynasty and which was rebuilt in Qing Tongzhi 12 (1886), and rebuilt again in 1991. There is an old stele in the hall as well as portraits of the Lin ancestors. The Lin have a lineage genealogy and ancestral tombs in Wushi. The Yang make up 80% of the population of Xishan 西山 village. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Longhsan sevenfold alliance were part of the black banner alliance. 
V464 Xi’an 溪安 1. Village settlement Xi’an village includes an area known as Houting 后亭. The entire village has approximately 380 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng shangshê 新丰上社, Beijidian 北极殿, Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公无帅, Dian daren 电大人, Tian daren 田大人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense procession 进香 is made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Daqiaotou 大桥头 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Su 苏, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingfu dongshê 兴福东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使. 2) Xianbentang 贤本堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 345 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, villagers go to the temple to ask for the incense fire 请香火 of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/14, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites are held. Initiates of the Three in One are invited to chant the scriptures. This ritual is organized by the Xianbentang 贤本堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V466 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting has over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Gu 顾. 3. Village temples Xinlong shangshê 新隆上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers go on a pilgrimage to Longshangong 龙山宫 temple to present incense 进香 and to request new incense fire from Tianshang shengmu 请天上圣母香火. On 1/13, the villagers take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of the Xinlong shangshê 新隆上社 on a procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, where Daoist ritual masters conduct a jiao ritual 道士做醮. These activities are organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, with the Houting temple paying for at least one day of opera and ritual. Funds for this purpose are raised on a per capita basis as well as via individual donations. 5/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V467 Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 230 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨. The other surname groups are the Dai 戴 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples Wan’anshê 万安社 was originally built in Guangxu 3 (1877) and was rebuilt in 1993. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense procession 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/12, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of Wananshê 万安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. On 1/13, villagers send off the Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to Longshangong 龙山宫. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 9/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V468 Wushi 乌石 1. Village settlement The entire village of Wushi has only 160 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Wushi zushê 乌石祖社 (Yihushê 壹壶社): Main god: imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yushu tianzun 玉枢天尊, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Liujiangjun 柳将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Lü Dongbing 吕洞宾, Li Tieguai 李铁拐, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙 山宫. Opera is performed, and a Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Beishan 北山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. The are also ten households of the Chen 陈 surname group. 3. Village temples Xingfu xinshê 兴福新社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang yuanshuai 吉祥元帅, Dutian dasheng 都天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V470 Xincun 新村 1. Village settlement Xincun village includes the Dongzhen village 东圳. The entire village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhong 钟, the Gu 顾, and the Li 李. They emigrated from Xi’an 溪安 and Dongzhen 东圳 respectively. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng dongshê 新丰东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) The Longxingshê 龙兴社 originally belonged to Dongzhen 东圳. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯, Hubu dashen 虎部大神, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 3) Longshangong 龙山宫 was originally built in Qing Jiaqing 8 (1803), and was rebuilt in 1989. In the front hall the main god is the imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母. Secondary gods: Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang shengjun 马洋圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Huban daren 虎斑大人, Wenlai yuanshuai 文赖元帅. The rear hall is a Buddhist hall (fotang) 佛堂. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Shansheng tang 善圣堂: The temple is located on top of Longshan 龙山. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Left: Weituo 韦陀. Right: Jialan 迦蓝. 4) Feixianyan 飞仙岩: Main gods: (rear) Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊, (front) Xiangong ajiu 仙公阿舅. Secondary gods: Jiuxian 九仙, Deli shifu 德理师傅. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. Incense is presented 进香 at the Longshangong 龙山宫 On 1/13 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. All these events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performed on the Longshan mountain 龙山, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the Feixianyan 飞仙岩, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 is held. Opera is performed on the Longshan mountain 龙山. This ritual is organized by Shanshengtang 善圣堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V471 Zhenxia 圳下 1. Village settlement Zhenxia village has approximately 500 people. This village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangzhenxia 上圳下 and Xiazhenxia 下圳下. Shangzhenxia has around 200 people, all of whom are the surname Huang. Xiazhenxia has about 300 people, all of whom are the surname You. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups: Huang 黄 and You 游. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng zushê 新丰祖社 (Xiazhenxia): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary god: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 2) Xinfeng xinshê 新丰兴社 ( Shangzhenxia): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mahou jiangjun 马侯将军. 3) Xianmingfu 显明府: Main god: Kang dage 康大哥. Secondary god: Li erye 李二爷. 4) Xingningmiao 兴宁庙 ( Shangzhenxia 上圳下) is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Wushi tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. Incense is presented 进香 to the Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/12 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited to practice the Dao 道 in every household while on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinfengshê 新丰社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. This event is organized by the You 游 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinfeng xingshê 新丰兴社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist master is invited to conduct the ritual. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Kang dage 康大哥 is held. Opera is performed for three days, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A105 Beida qijing (Beida sevenfold ritual alliance) 北大七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida is located along the northern main channel of the Yangshoubei Irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. The area was part of the Chendun Dagoupu 陈墩大沟铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming the villages of Chendun 陈墩 and Dagou 大沟 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Houyu 后俞, Beigou 北沟, Xizheng 西郑, Gouxia 沟下 and Guandou 宫兜separated off. The total population of the area is over 3000 people, and they are managed by the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê temples into seven ritual territories. Apart from agriculture and lychee trees, the local people also work as carpenters and in shoe manufacturing factories Yanfu zushê 延福祖社, located in Chendun 陈墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the territories of the alliance goes to the temple to invite the gods back to their village. Each year the birthday celebration of the gods is organized collectively by the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V472 Chendun 陈墩 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 makes up two third of the population while the Yao 姚 makes up one third. The Chen are related to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈 and are divided into three branches, of which the third branch has the most people. The Yao emigrated from Changlin 畅林 of Chengjiao 城郊. Each year two Fushou (ritual managers) are selected by rotation according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Yanfu zushê 延福祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Gaoshan sheng- Beida sevenfold ritual alliance hou 高山圣侯, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Zhuogong zhoushi 卓公咒师. 2) Xinxian lingong 新显麟宫 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Jiaxinggong 嘉兴宫 is dedicated to Wufu daren 乌府大人. Secondary gods are Sujiangjun 苏将军, Zhengjiangjun 郑将军, Huyi jiangjun 虎夷将军 and Huzhongjun 胡中军. 4) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 is held. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 9/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wufu daren 乌府大人 is held. This celebration is organized by the Beida 北大 sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals 
V473 Houlu 后炉 1. Village settlement Houlu was originally called Houyu 后俞. The entire village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 make up two thirds of the total population while the Luo 罗 makes up one third. The Huang moved to Houlu from Donghuang 东黄 inside of Putian city. The Huang have been in the village for five or six generations. There originally was an ancestral hall, but it was torn down. The Huang of the village are divided into three branches, of which the Qiaotoufang 桥头房 branch has the most people, approximately 210 people. The second branch has the least number of people. The Luo 罗 came to Putian from Hunan province eight or nine generations ago. They claim to have come from Hunan 湖南 province. There was an ancestral hall, but it was torn down. Two Fushou (ritual hosts) are selected each year according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Longpangong 龙攀宫 contains the Wanfushê 万福社: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Kaimingtang 开明堂 includes the Jielingong 捷麟宫: Main gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Li daren 李大人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 120 initiates. 3) Jielingong 捷麟宫: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Li daren 李大人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhuogong zhoushi 卓公咒师, and Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯 go on procession within the village. One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The day of Toufu 头福 beginning good fortune is celebrated. Opera is performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V474 Beijiao 北郊 1. Village settlement Beijiao was originally called Beigou 北沟. The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 makes up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Zeng 曾 and the Wu 吴. The Huang 黄 moved from Zhenghuang 郑黄 in Putian. The Huang of the village are divided into four branches: Dingcheng 顶埕, Xiacheng 下埕, Cuohou 厝后, and Goubian 沟边. The number of people in each branch is similar. 3. Village Temples 1) Yangqingong 洋沁宫, Xinanshê 新安社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wushi tianfei 吴圣天妃. 2) Zhumingci 主明祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 go on procession within the village and lanterns are paraded. Two ritual managers are selected on a rotation according to age. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/6: The Toufu celebration 头福 is held with opera. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Spirit mediums are invited to “pick the flower flame” 神童采花 (stand bare-chested in a flaming Roman candle). 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Zhumingci 主明祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis (4–5RMB per person). The ritual managers rotate into position according to age. Two hosts are selected per year. 
V475 Jiaoxia 郊下 1. Village settlement Jiaoxia was originally Gouxia 沟下. The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group of the Zhuang 庄. The Zhuang had emigrated from Xiadu 下度 of Huian 惠安. The entire village is divided into three lineage branches. Each branch has approximately the same number of people. The ancestral tomb is in Huian 惠安 county. Ritual managers (Fushou) are selected on a rotation basis, according to age, from amongst the elders of the village. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing zushê 隆兴祖社 contains the Beijidian 北极殿: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhufu daren 朱府大人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Minglingong 名麟宫: Main gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods are Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Wuhua tongzi 五花童子 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 are placed in palm sedan chairs 棕轿 and taken on a procession to practice the Dao 道 in every household with Shêlu 社炉. Opera is performed. A single Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V476 Dagou 大沟 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, and the Ou 欧. The Wu have more than 400 people and emigrated from Shangwu 上梧 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Wu are now divided into three branches, namely, the fourth branch, the sixth branch, and the Houmen branch 后门房. The ancestral tomb is near the Shipan water reservoir 石盘水库 of Xitianwei 西天尾. The Lin have more than 200 people. The Lin are now divided into three branches, namely, the second branch, the third branch, and the Houcheng branch 后埕房, of which the Houcheng branch has the most number of people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it is now a warehouse. It is said that the Lin emigrated from Qiulu 萩芦. The Ou 欧 have more than 200 people. Their origin is unclear. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, Longxing dongshê 隆兴东社 was built in Qing Jiaqing 8 (1803). Main god: Imperially enfeoffed Tianhou shengmu 敕封天后圣母. Secondary gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yunxiandong 云仙洞 was rebuilt in 1981. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 3) Yixintang 一心堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4) Longdetang 隆德堂: Main gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Yima furen 姨妈大神. Secondary gods are Shangma dashen 尚妈大神, Baifu daren 白府大人, Huangfu daren 黄府大人 and Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. 5) Xingfumiao 兴福庙 was destroyed in 1958 but was rebuilt in recent years. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 and Ou 欧 invite Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 go on a procession and lanterns are paraded. On 1/14–15, the Wu 吴 invite Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 to go on procession and lanterns are paraded. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the Lin 林 and Ou 欧, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the 吴, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the Lin 林 and the Ou 欧 together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. The celebration is organized by the Ou 欧, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual organization Ritual managers are appointed, with two from each surname group, and they rotate into positions of responsibility according to age. 
V477 Xizheng 西郑 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张, the Huang 黄, and the Zeng 曾. The Zeng has the most people, with more than 200 people. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社 was built in Xianfeng period (1851–1861) Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Longxing yishê 隆兴一社 was built in recent years. Main god: Zunzhumingwang 尊主明, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiansheng shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 3) Xingxun zumiao 兴巡祖庙 was built during the Ming Dynasty. Main god: Yangfu daren 杨府大人. Secondary gods: Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baifu daren 白府大人, Jiangfu daren 江府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the Chen 陈 and Lin 林 take the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社and the incense burner of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of the Zhaohui linggong temple 昭惠灵宫on a procession to their part of the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/15, the Zhang 张, Zeng 曾 and Huang 黄 take the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of the Longxing yishê 隆兴一社 and the incense burner of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of the Zhaohui linggong temple 昭惠灵宫on a procession around their part of the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct the rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/8: The birthday celebration of Yangfu daren 杨府大人 is held. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Baifu daren 白府大人 is held. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. This event is co-organized by the Xizheng village together with Tangbian 塘边 village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis in both villages. 4/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is also co-organized by Xizheng 西郑 village and Tangbian 塘边 village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from both villages. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Jiangfu daren 江府大人 is held. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 5. Ritual groups The ritual managers are the elderly of the village who take turns according to age. 
A106 Shanghuang ershê (Shanghuang two shê ritual alliance) 上黄二社 The two shê alliance of Shannghuang 上黄 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Shanghuangpu (police/self defense unit) of Rendeli subcanton 仁德里. In the Qing, the village of Shanghuang was settled. Currently the village population is over 1200 people. Shanghuang is managed by the Beida Administrative Village. 北大行政村. The local ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê altars. The main local surname group is the Lin 林, with roughly 90% of the village population. The remainder are members of the Huang surname group 黄. The Lin moved to the village from Hanjiang Shuangfu Duxia 涵江双福渡下. Their lineage is divided into three large branches. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the two shê of Shanghuang were both part of the black banner alliance.Shanghuang two shê ritual alliance (
V478 Shanghuang 上黄) 1. Village settlement Shanghuang is part of the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The entire village has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group, the Lin 林, makes up more than 90% of the total population. Other surnames include the Huang 黄. The Lin emigrated from Shuangfu 双福 (Duxia 渡下) of Hanjiang 涵江. The Lin of the village are now divided into three branches: the sixth branch, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Citangbian 祠堂边. The latter makes up 40% of the total population. 3. Village temples 1) Chongdeshê 崇德社: This temple was originally owned by the Huang 黄, but since the shê of the Lin 林 had collapsed, the Lin combined their shê with that of the Huang. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (two statues), Zhang gong 张公 (two statues), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (two statues). 2) Shuanghuangjing chongdeshê 上黄境崇德社 belongs to the Lin 林. This temple was rebult in 1996. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dugong yuanshuai 杜公元帅. 3) Kaizhengmiao 开正庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen姨妈夫人, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Xiefu dashen 谢府大神 and Huye 虎爷. 4) Taizimiao 太子庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Lin 林 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Lin portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Lin surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 the Huang 黄 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Huang portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/1: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Ritual managers rotate into responsibility for management of annual celebrations according to age. 4/24:Qibu qijing (Qibu sevenfold ritual alliance) 七步七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Qibu is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Qibupu 七步铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming the village of Qibu 七步村 was settled, and in the Qing the villages of Paohudun 袍笏墩 (Caoqiaotou 草桥头), Shanglindun 上林墩, Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Guodun 郭墩 and Toudun 头墩 separated off. In the late Qing the villages of Zhuxiang朱衖 and Zhengdun 郑墩 have been settled. All these villages are managed by the Qibu Administrative Village 七步行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to shê altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. These are locally known as the sevenfold ritual alliance of the eight mounds 七境八墩. The Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社, located in Shanlindun 上林墩 village, is the founding shê-temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance must start its own procession of the gods from this temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Qibu was part of the black banner alliance. 
V479 Zhuxiang 朱衖 1. Village settlement Zhuxiang includes Qianzhi (Guodun) 前至 (郭墩). The population of Zhuxiang is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Wu 吴 and Guo 郭. Qibu sevenfold ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Longxingshê 龙兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianjimiao 显迹庙: The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Baiyundong 白云洞: The main god is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Liewei shaoye 列位少爷, Jin daren 金大人, Bai daren 白大人, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, gods of Longxingshê 龙兴社 are invited to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within the territory by the Guo 郭in Qianzhi 前至. On 1/15–16, the gods of the Longxingshê 龙兴社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the Guo 郭 of Qianzhi 前至. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V480 Zhengdun 郑墩 1. Village settlement Zhengdun was originally called Toudun 头墩. Zhengdun village includes the area known as Xiting 西亭. The population of Zhengdun is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qingzi beishê 青紫北社 was originally built during the early Ming. According to local legend, Emperor Zhengde 正德皇帝 painted a bat on the temple wall during his trip to Jiangnan, thus there are no mosquitoes in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Heyitan 合一坛: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Chen dage 陈大哥, Zhang dage 张大哥, Li dage 李大哥, Liu dage 刘大哥, Jin daren 金大人, Hong daren 洪大人, and Lan daren 兰大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to practice the Dao in every household and to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16–17, Shêlu 社炉 incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to practice the Dao 道. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/4: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11/24: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V481 Chaiqiaotou 柴桥头 1. Village settlement The population of Chaiqiaotou is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Sun 孙 and the Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qingzi nanshê 青紫南社 (located in Zhengdun 郑墩): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Baolingong 保麟宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Jufengting 聚峰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Zhongshantang 中山堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Shanglindun 上林墩 1. Village settlement The population of Shanglindun is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shi 施, Li 李, and 陈 Chen. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 2) Xianzhengong 显镇宫: Local legend has it that that the emperor (Huangdi 皇帝) lived here during the Pingmin shibadong military campaign 平闽十八 洞 (a series of magical battles to pacify Fujian). The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Feifu daren 飞府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 the gods of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 are taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Between 1/28–2/4, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东 village goes on procession through the villages of Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the three villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 11/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V483 Jiaodong 郊东 1. Village settlement Jiaodong was originally called Goudong 沟东. The population of Jiaodong is approximately 1800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Fang 方 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 contains the altars of the Funingshê 福宁社, the Fuanshê 福安社, and the Changfushê 长福社 (belonging to Jiaoxi 郊西 village): This temple was built in 1404, rebult in 1685 and again in 1987, and was rebuilt and expanded in 2004. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wang lingguan 王灵官 (Fujishen 扶乩神—a god who possesses spirit mediums). 3) Ruilingong 瑞霖宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Yuqingci 玉清祠 (belongs to the Wu 吴): The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 records 77 initiates. 5) Humingci 湖明祠 (belongs to the Lin 林): The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Funing shê 福宁社 go on procession to Xu 许 households. This is organized by the Xu surname group. On 1/11, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Xiaowu 小吴 and Xu 许 households. This is organized by the Xiaowu 小吴 residents. On 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Qianwu 前吴 and Houwu 后吴 households. These events are organized by the Qianwu 前吴 and Houwu 后吴 residents. On 1/14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Fang households 方. This is organized by the Fang 方. On 1/15, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Lin 林 households. This is organized by the Lin 林. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 go on procession within the village. Between 1/28–2/4, on a day determined by divination, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong village 郊东 goes on a procession through Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê 福安社. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. The events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê temples and their communities, and funds are raised on a per capita basis and/or by voluntary contributions. 9/3:Jiaoxi 郊西 1. Village settlement Jiaoxi was originally called Gouxi 沟西. The population of Jiaoxi is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Wei 魏 and the Guo 郭. 3. Village temples Changfushê 长福社 is located in the Zhongxing gong 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东). Guanyinting 观音亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Deshantang 德善堂 was built in 1926 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Changfushê 长福社 go on procession to Chen 陈 households. This is organized by the Chen. On 1/18, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Changfushê 长福社 go on procession to Wei 魏 and Guo 郭 households. This is organized by the Wei and Guo surname groups. Between 1/28–2/4, on a day determined by divination, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东 goes on a procession through Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V485 Paohudun 袍笏墩 1. Village settlement The population of Paohudun is approximately 1000 people. This village is divided into the Houcuo 后厝, Xiacheng 下埕 and Xiadun 下墩 neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 originally had a wooden plaque 匾 inscribed by Wen Tianxiang 文天祥, but it was destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong tiashi 杨公太师, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Zouma sheren 走马舍人, and Zhuzi shengjun 朱紫圣君. 2) Zhenglingong 正麟宫: The main god is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima furen 姨妈夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Li daren 李大人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Lufu shaoye 鲁府少爷 and Li jiangjun 李将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, gods of Xinxingshê 新兴社 are taken by Houcuo 后厝 to every one of its household to practice the Dao and then go on a procession within the village. On 1/15, the gods of Xinxingshê 新兴社 go on procession within the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/11: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A108 (
V486 Wujiang sishê (Wujiang four shê ritual alliance) 吴江四社 Wujiang 吴江) 1. Village settlement Wujiang was originally known as Wudao 吴刀. The village is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Wudaopu 吴刀铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming, the village was already settled. The current population is approximately 3700 people. The village is both a natural village and an Administrative Village. The temple ritual system is divided mainly on the basis of lineage into four shê. The four shê are the Zhongxingshê 忠兴祖社, the Dongshê 东社, the Lishê 里社, and the Nanshê 南社. The Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 is the mainWujiang four shê ritual alliance temple of the four shê alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê ritual alliance of Wujiang was part of the red banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The first settlers were the Wu 吴. Now, the main surname groups are the Zeng 曾, the Zhan 詹, the Yang 杨. Minor surname groups include the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, and the Jiang 江. The Zeng make up one third of the total population, the Zhan make up another third, and the Yang make up one quarter. The Zeng are divided into four lineage branches, of which the first branch has the most people, making up one third of the total number. The third branch has the least number of people, having only one household. There is currently a Zeng ancestral hall 曾姓祠堂 which was build during the Qing, and is used during the Yuanxiao festival 元宵 and during marriage ceremonies. The ancestral tombs are in Shangfeng 上峰 of Xitianwei 西天尾. The Zhan are divided into three lineage branches, of which the first branch has the most people, making up almost a third of the total number. There is an ancestral hall and ancestral tombs. The Yang are also divided into three lineage branches, of which the second branch has the most people, making up approximately 40–50% of the total number. 3. Village temples 1) The Wujiangjing Chongshengmiao 吴江境崇圣庙 was rebuilt in 1992. The main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Heshi xianshi 和氏先师, Liu xiansheng 刘先生. 2) Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 and Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社: This joint temple is co-owned by the Zeng 曾 and the Zhan 詹. The temple was rebuilt in 1989. The Zhongxing zushê (belonging to the Zhan 詹) main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社 (belonging to the Zeng 曾) main gods are a different pair of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社: Co-owned by the Jiang 江, Huang 黄, and the Lin 林, this temple was rebuilt in 1991. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fuying shenghou 孚应圣侯, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 4) Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社: the temple is owned by the Yang 杨. The temple was originally taken over by the village commune (gongxiaoshê 供 销社), but now it has been restored. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Qingming shuyuan 清明书院: Also called Qingmingtang 清明堂, the temple was built in 1982. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods: (left altar) Zhang sanfeng 张三峰, (right altar) Zhuo zhenren 卓真人; left corridor: Chen Zhida 陈智达, Liang Puyao 梁普耀. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 145 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhan 詹 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/11–12, the Zeng 曾 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/13, the Yang 杨 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, the Chen 陈 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/15, the Huang 黄, Jiang 江, and Lin 林 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/15, each surname group of the village hang up lanterns in their own shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/28, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Sima shengwang 司马圣王 of Chongshengmiao temple 崇圣庙 is invited to go on procession within the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/8: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. A jinxiang 进香 presentation of incense pilgrimage is made to the Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong Mountain. This event is organized by the Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/7: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/8–9: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Jiang 江, Huang 黄, and Lin 林 of Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/11–12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Zeng 曾 of Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/13–15: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Zhan 詹 of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 6th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾 are each responsible for one day, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held . Opera is performed. This event is organized by Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of the Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Heshi xianshi 和氏先师 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾 are each responsible for one day, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Yang 杨, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 and Dongshê 东社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is co-organized by the Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Jiang 江, the Huang 黄, and the Lin 林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/3: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度. Marionette plays are performed. The Three in One ritual is organized by the Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A109 Daili qijing (Daili sevenfold ritual alliance) 埭里七境 The Daili sevenfold village alliance is located at the intersection of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation 太平陂. This region was part of the Yishan shanglinpu 依山上林舖 and the Lüdongpu 吕洞铺 (police/defense unit) of Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming, the village of Lüdai 吕埭 was settled, but by the early Qing it had divided into the villages of Shanglindai 上林埭. Lindai 林埭, Xiadun 霞墩, Xikou 溪口, Youqiaotou 游桥头, Xijiangbian 西江边, Qianhuangdai 前黄埭, and Caidai 蔡埭. In the late Qing the villages of Xiacheng 下澄, and Xiagao 下高Daili sevenfold ritual alliance separated off. These villages are all managed by the Daili Administrative Village 埭里行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. The Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 temple, located in Qianhuang village 前黄村, is the main temple of the seven village alliance 七境总宫. The main god of the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each year with an intercalary lunar month, the god is carried on a procession to each of the villages in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance was originally part of the red banner alliance, but later the villages of Xikou 溪口 and Xiagao 下高 joined the white banner alliance. 
V487 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement The total village population is over 750 people living in 140 households. The main livelihood is agriculture, lychee trees, and some fishing. Formerly, when racing dragon boats, the village raised a red banner to indicate that it was neutral in the conflicts between black and white banner alliances at the end of the Qing. 2. Surname groups It is said that the Wu 吴 surname group was originally the dominant one in the village, making its living by making pottery, but that they later moved to Danwei village in Tantou 塘头潭尾, and that the Lin 林 also moved to an outside village. Currently, the Weng 翁 make up 90% of the village population. There are also some households of the Huang 黄, one of the Zheng 郑, the Chen 陈 and the Wu 吴 have only one old man left. The Weng came from the northern part of Wutang, from Dongpo village 北梧塘东坡村. It is said that the first Weng to come to Shanglin village married a daughter of the Lin and had two sons. The eldest was surnamed Lin, but died young. The second took the Weng surname, and lived on in Shanglin, becoming the founding ancestor of the Weng of the village. Now the Weng have divided into three lineage branches, called Fu 福, Lu 禄 and Shou 寿三大房. The Fu branch has about 30 households, the Lu branch has 80, and the Lu branch has 25. The Weng ancestral hall is still extant, and the founding ancestor Master Jihua 季华公, the second generation ancestor Master Chenghou 二世祖诚厚公 along with the third generation branch founders Master Duxin 三世祖笃心公, Master Yangxin 养心公, and Master Tingxin 汀心公 are all worshipped in this hall. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglinjing Longboshê 上林境龙波社 was repaired in 1983. In the middle altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴胜天妃. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the left altar is Tanhuafu Tiangong yuanshuai 探花府田公元帅 (there was formerly a spirit medium often possessed by this god), Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Puji shengshou 普济圣侯, Heihu dajiang 黑虎大将, the Baban zaoli 八班皂隶. On the left altar which is referred to as the Fulin xinggong 绂麟行宫 are found Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huang sheren 黄舍人, Bai sheren白舍人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Lufu shaoye 鲁府少爷. In the front of the temple there are altars for Xie daye 谢大爷 on the left, and Fan erye 范二爷 on the right. 3) Jieshengtang 捷圣堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records ten initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 villagers go the temple to pray for blessings 上元祈福. On 1/16 Wushi tianfei 吴氏天妃 is invited to go on a tour of inspection procession throughout the village. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the rituals. One holds the incense burner, one holds the god statue, and two hold the great lanterns. Daoist masters are invited to recite scriptures. Birthday celebrations of the gods Early in the second lunar month, the first opera of the year 头条戏 is performed for two to three days. 7/16: The celebration of Wushi tianfei 吴氏天妃. Opera is performed for two or three days. 9/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 (known colloquially as Shêgong and Shêma 社公社妈). All the gods are invited to watch opera for three to seven days. Each day rituals are held three times, and are conducted by Daoist ritual masters. In the 10th lunar month, the Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 下元普渡 are performed. Every three years a more elaborate Lanpen 兰盆 ritual is held in which the lamps of longevity 寿灯 are burned. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no mediums, Daoist master, or opera troupes. Each Yuanxiao, they invite Daoists and opera troupes to perform in the village. There is a Three in One temple called the Jieshengtang 捷圣堂 which was rebuilt in 1983. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Secondary gods include Beijidian Xuantian shangdi 北极殿玄天上帝 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year on 10/15, five tables of offerings of fruit and tea are prepared for the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The Three in One initiates recite the scripture of offering of tea each day in the morning and evening, and on the first and fifteenth of each month they recite the Scripture of the Three Sages. Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement The village of Xiadun has a population of over 800 people living in over 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by lychee trees and fishing. According to local legend, the deep channel behind the village was known as the Turtle Channel, and was the lair of a turtle demon. Every time the weather changed, he would rise up out of his hole and float on the surface of the water. Then he would gobble up the spirits of the men of the neighboring village of Loutou 漏头, causing them to wither and decline. Later a geomancer destroyed the turtle, and its corpse floated to the surface. Thus in the channel there formed a small islet surrounded by water, where the village of Xiadun 下墩 formed. Currently the village sets up a red banner when they race their dragon boats. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of only the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. The Xiadun Lin came from Shanglin village, while the Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 outside Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Xiadunjing Longboshê 下墩境龙波社 branched off from the Shanglin Longboshê 上林龙波社. In 1982, the Singapore Overseas Chinese Lin Wenqi 林文棋 and Lin Jinsuo 林金锁 repaired the temple. On the main altar is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土人人, to the left are Wencao 文曹 (civil ministers) and to the right Wupan 武判 (military officers). 2) Anhuaigong 安怀宫 was built in the Qing Qianlong period (1736– 1795) and restored in 1985. Inscriptions on the temple commemorate the contributions of Overseas Chinese from Singapore. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the Lin 林 pray for good fortune上元祈福. On 1/14 the Chen 陈 pray for good fortune 上元祈福; and on 1/15, they invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 to go on a procession of inspection and seal the roadways 出巡封路. Each year eight Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility for the management of the rituals. Daoist ritual masters are invited to recite scriptures and conduct a jiao 念经做醮. As an old saying goes, “Gong 公, Ma 妈 and Hou 侯 got under way together.” Eight ritual managers are selected in rotation according to age. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct the rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25–26: The first opera of the year 头条戏 is performed. 2/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for one day. In the fourth lunar month the celebration of Heaven and Earth is held and there is opera for two days. 8/8: The celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held, with opera for five to six days. 5. Ritual Groups There are no Daoists, Tanban altar association, spirit mediums, or opera or marionette troupes in the village. At Yuanxiao, Daoist masters are invited in from outside villages, and Buddhist monks are invited in to perform the xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance (in the 10th lunar month). On the birthdays of the gods, opera troupes or marionette troupes are invited in to perform. Originally, the goddess Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 would possess a spirit medium and transmit messages via planchette but this tradition has diminished in recent years. In 1960 the spirit medium went to Singapore to the Anhuaigong 安怀宫 there at the invitation of Lin Wenqi 林文棋, a Singapore Overseas Chinese. There he continues to transmit the messages of the goddess. The village has a Three in One temple called Liuyetang 六也堂 (also called the Liuye shuyuan 六也书院) dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods to the left are Sanjiao faye 三教法爷, and to the right, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Rituals are held in the temple on the first and fifteenth of every month. The village also has a Buddhist nunnery called the Chongde’an 崇德庵 managed by a nun and dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 
V489 Xikou 溪口 1. Village settlement The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by lychee trees, livestock, and jobs for women in shoe manufacturing factories. During the inter-village struggles of the late Qing, the village shifted from being a red banner to allying with the white banner villages. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 make up about 50% of the village population, and the Cheng 程 make up 40%. In addition there are some Luo 罗 and Chen 陈 households, about ten each. The Zheng came to the village from Chenmendou 辰门兜 in Putian city. The Cheng 程氏 were originally the sons-in-law of the Zheng, and thus stayed on to live in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Xikoujing Longbo xinshê 溪口境龙波新社 is dedicated to Chifeng shengwang 敕封圣王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Shu daren 署大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the first opera of the year is performed 演头条戏. On 1/11, the Cheng 程 take the gods on a procession. On 1/14 the Zheng 郑 take the gods on procession. On 1/15 the Luo 罗 and the Chen 陈 take the gods on procession. On each occasion four palm sedan chairs are carried on procession, with seats for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village has spirit mediums but no Tanban altar association. The gods who possess the mediums are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shu daren 署大人. The Three in One temple is called Xingbentang 兴本堂, and it is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 
V490 Youqiaotou 游桥头 1. Village settlement The village of Youqiaotou includes the two neighborhoods of Youqiaotou 游桥头 and Xiahuang 下黄. The population of the village is approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in Youqiaotou is the Chen 陈. There are also the You 游, the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林 and the Wu 吴. Xiahuang is entirely made up of Chen households. The Chen came to the village from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口 and are of the same Chen lineage as the Chen of Xizhuang 西庄陈氏. The Zheng 郑氏 moved to the village from Daicheng 岱埕 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Longbo dongshê 龙波东社 was repaired in 1984. On the main altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left altar: Zhougong yuanshuai 周公元帅, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃. Other gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Xiao zhongjun 肖中军. 2) Xieyitang 协义堂 was rebuilt in 1946. The main god is Huofeng shenghou 火风圣侯. Left altar: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Right altar: Zhougong yuanshuai 周公元帅. 3) Wanshanting 万善亭 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 there is a procession of the gods in Youqiaotou 游桥头 to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in every household. On 1/15 the same thing takes place in Xiahuang 下黄. On 1/17 the entire village does a joint procession, opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rites. Four palm sedan chairs go on procession, carrying Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. Each year four Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility for the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Huofeng shenghou 火风圣侯. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 10/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis, 2 yuan per person. 5. Ritual groups The village Three in One temple is the Genbentang 根本堂, which was restored in 1992, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 
V491 Caidai dongzhi 蔡埭东至 1. Village settlement The village of Caidai dongzhi has a population of approximately 730 people, living in around 160 households. The main livelihood is agriculture, supplemented by growing lychees, fishing, handicrafts, and a small number involved in commerce. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. There are also minor surname groups such as the Su 苏, the Cai 蔡 and the Zhuo 卓. The Huang 黄 came from Huangxiang in Hanjiang 涵江黄巷 (Huangxia village 黄霞村). The Chen came from Kuokou near Putian 阔口. 3. Village temples 1) Lüdongpu caidaijing Shengxing dongshê 吕洞铺 蔡埭境盛兴东社 has the following main gods on the central altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Liugong shengjun 刘公圣君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Guanhu jiangjun 管虎将军, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liu xiangu 柳仙姑, Li xiangu 李仙姑. Perched high above the altar: Beijidian Xuantian shangdi 北极殿玄天上帝. 2) Bigaoci 陛高祠 is dedicated to Hou daren 侯大人 (who has hereditary spirit mediums), Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Fu daren 傅大人, Baoling zhongjun 保令中军, Yangfu zhongjun 杨府中军, Wei zhongjun 惟中军, Fa zhong   jun 法中军. Left altar: Lingshantan Nezha taizi 灵山坛哪咤太子. Right altar: Wanfumiao Baidaren 万福庙白大人 (who possesses spirit mediums). 3) Mingyitang 明义堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 record 120 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福 and take lanterns on a procession. They invite Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 in a large sedan chair, and five smaller palm sedan chairs are prepared for Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 1/14 at night the palm sedan chairs leap over a bonfire, and the Fushou 福首 invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/15 Taiyi xiangu delivers incense 走香 from the Yongxing xishê 永星 西社 to each household. The roads to the village are ritually sealed, Daoist rites are held, and the temple doors are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation. Three of them carry the incense burners, and the fourth carries a tray of offerings to the goddess. The procession includes 24 members of a drum and cymbal woman’s music troupe, one large banner carrier, four middle sized banner carriers, two people to carry the great drum, and two to carry smaller drums, two to carry great lanterns, and two to carry “earth lanterns”, two more to carry “peace lanterns”, a Daoist ritual master, one person carrying the goddess’ umbrella, and two people to set of firecracker guns along the route of the procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/20: The celebration of Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/17: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/20: The celebration of Hou daren 侯大人. On each of these occasions, the Fushou arrange for tables of offerings to be set out in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to recite scriptures and conduct rites. Opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis, at a rate of 1.50 yuan per person. 
V492 Caidai xizhi 蔡埭西至 1. Village settlement The village of Caidai xizhi has 524 people living in 116 households. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Cheng 程 and the Lin 林. There are also fourteen households of the Xiao 萧, and five households of the Cai 蔡, and a few outside households of Zou 邹 and Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Caidaijing Yongxing xishê 蔡埭境永兴西社 is divided into the upper and lower temple halls. The temple is said to be an ancient shê temple from the Song which was rebuilt in the Qianlong period (1736–1975), expanded in the Republican period, and rebuilt again in 1989. The temple couplets read: “ During Yuanxiao follow the ancient rites, under the moon take lanterns on procession to the eastern and western shê altars. The Nuo exorcism shines on every year, we pray for good fortune and peace for every household, large and small.” The front central altar is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qiu dutong 邱都统, Liu dotung 刘都统, Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统. The back central altar is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Left altar: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 2) Bikedong 陛科洞 is dedicated to Hou daren 侯大人. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Right altar: Fude zhengsheng 福德正神, Baoling zhongjun 保令中军, Yangfu zhongjun 杨府中军, Fa zhongjun 法中军, Wei zhongjun 惟中军, and Shenggong 圣公. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福 and go on a procession with lanterns. They invite Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 to sit in a large sedan chair, and five smaller palm sedan chairs are prepared for Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 1/12 at night the palm sedan chairs leap over a bonfire, and the Fushou 福首 invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/13 incense 走香 from the Shengxing dongshê 盛兴东社 is taken to each household. The roads to the village are ritually sealed, Daoist rites are held, and the temple doors are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/1: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/20: The celebration of Hou daren 侯大人. 11/2–3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 and the Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. On each of these occasions opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups The Deqingan 德清庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and is tended by a Buddhist nun. 
V493 Qianhuang 前黄 1. Village settlement The village of Qianhuang has over 700 people, and is divided into five neighborhoods: Weicuo 尾厝, Qiancuo 前厝, Dapo 大坡, Geqiao 隔桥, and Houcuo 后厝. The main livelihood is farming, and the community is rather poor. 2. Surname groups This village is a mixed surname village. In Weicuo 尾厝 the Zheng 郑 are dominant. There is a Zheng ancestral hall called the Chaoyici 郑氏朝议祠, and there are also several households surnamed Weng 翁. In Qiancuo 前厝 the Lin 林 are dominant. In Dapo 大坡 the main surnames are Huang 黄 and Chen 陈. In Geqiao 隔桥 there are the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Zhuo 卓, the Huang 黄 and the Zeng 曾 surnames. In Houcuo there is only the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Qiantanggong 钱塘境钱塘宫 contains the altar of the Anrenshê 安仁社. The temple has a front and a back hall, and is the main overall temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. A stele from Tongzhi 1 (1862) and a record of ritual sacrifices to the gods have been preserved. Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is housed in a niche above the altar, the central alter is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The right altar: Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Qianhuangjing Fulin xinggong 前黄境绂麟行宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 (Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人). The left altar: Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘, Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘, Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Erwei haier 二位 孩儿, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. On the front altars of the temple are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 3) Yilantan 旖兰坛 is in Houhuang 后厝 and is dedicated to Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘, Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘 and Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Weicuo Zheng 尾厝郑 take the incense burners of the temple to carry out the Dao 行道 in their neighborhood. On 1/11 the Qiancuo Lin前厝林 do the same. On 1/12 the Dapo Huang and Lin 大坡黄, 林 do the same. On 1/13 the Geqiao Wu, Zhuo, Zeng, Chen, and Huang 隔桥吴, 卓, 曾, 陈, 黄 do the same. On 1/14 the Houcuo Lin 后厝林 do the same as well. On 1/16 the villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福, and take the gods in palm sedan chairs and leap through a bonfire. Daoists are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 of the village are selected by drawing lots. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Qiancuo 前厝 performs opera for two days. Each year there is an intercalary month, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 go on a procession throughout the entire sevenfold (actually nine) village alliance. 5/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The entire village sponsors opera performances for two days. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The entire village sponsors opera performances for two days. 9/6: The celebration of Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. Opera is performed for two days in Houcuo 后厝. 9/26: The celebration of Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘 and Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘. Opera is performed for two days in Houcuo 后厝. 
V494 Xiacheng 下澄 1. Village settlement Xicheng was originally called Xiading 下丁. The village of Xiacheng has over 400 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, supplemented by raising eels, stone-cutting, and women working in shoe factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in the village are the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Zheng 郑. The Wu moved to the village from Wutang Youqiaotou 梧塘游桥头. 3. Village temples 1) Xaichengjing Longpo lishê 下澄境龙坡里社 was restored in 1992. The main gods on the central altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Cai daren 蔡大人. 2) Baodingtang 保定堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (Zhonglie dayuanshuai 忠烈大元帅) and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Zongdean 宗德庵 was built in 1990, and is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo 韦陀, right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, who go on a tour of inspection procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the third month, on a day determined by divination, a celebration of Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 is held and the first opera of the year is performed for two days . 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. In the ninth month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 
V495 Xiagao 下高 1. Village settlement The village of Xiagao has a population of 410 people. The main livelihood is farming, but many young women work in shoe factories. In the struggles between the banner alliances, the village first was neutral (red banner), but later tended towards the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups There are four main surnames in the village, the Wei 魏, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, and the Zheng 郑. The Lin claim to descend from the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. The Chen 陈 moved to the village from Anren Xiajiang 安仁霞江. 3. Village temples 1) Xiagaojing Longposhê 下高境龙波社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Linshui furen 临水夫人. 2) Zixiadian 紫霞殿 was rebuilt in 1942 and is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 and Tiankui yuanshuai 天魁元帅. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗. Right altar: Zhuogong shenghou 卓公圣侯 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back from heaven and opera is performed for two days. On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君 go on a procession around the village. Five Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year four Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility for the ritual activities of the year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and opera is performed for two days. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and each time every person in the village provides 3 yuan. 
A110 Shuanggu sancun (Shanggu three-village ritual alliance) 双福三村 The Shuangfu three village ritual alliance 双福三村 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北 大沟. This region originally belonged to the Ketang Shangguo pu 柯塘上 郭舖 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Qing dynasty, the villages of Shangguo 上郭, Qianting 前亭 and Ketang 柯塘 and Shucan 书仓 (Yuzuang 俞庄) were settled. These villages are now managed by the Shuangfu 双福 and Ketang Administrative Villages 柯塘二行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of settlements and lineage into a three village ritual alliance.Shangfu three village ritual alliance The Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 of Qianting 前亭 is the founding shê altar 祖社 for the three village alliance. The Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 (founding shê) is also called the Mazugong 妈祖宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The temple was first built in Qing Daoguang 28 (1848), and has been rebuilt in recent years. The founding shê has branched out into four second generation shê, each named for one of the directions: the eastern Dongshê 东社 is in the villages of Yuzhuang 俞庄, the western Xishê 西社 is in Ketang 柯塘, the southern Nanshê 南社 is in Qianting 前亭, and the northern Beishê 北社 belongs to the Guo lineage of Beigang 北港郭氏. Currently, because the population of Yuzhuang has diminished, the eastern shê 东社 no longer is extant. In addition, Shangguo 上郭 village, which originally belonged to the Xianyinshê 显应社 system, currently is participates in the ritual activities of the Xingfushê 兴福社 instead. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in turn goes on procession to the Xingfu zushê to invite the gods. On 1/9–10, Qianting 前亭 invites the gods. On 1/9–11, Shangguo 上郭 invites the gods. On 1/13–15, Ketang 柯塘 invites the gods. On 1/16, the Xingfu founding zushê 兴福祖社 holds a general Yuanxiao celebration, and each village takes turns sponsoring opera and Daoist ritual masters are invited to the founding shê to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. On the occasion of each god’s birthday celebration (i.e., 2/23–25 for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣; 3/23–25 for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母; and 9/28–10/4 for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人), each village takes turns sponsoring opera at the temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Shuangfu were part of the red banner alliance. 
V496 Shangguo 上郭 1. Village settlement Shangguo was originally called Shangge 上阁. Shangguo is part of the Shuangfu Administrative Village 双福行政村. The village has a population of approximately 1000 people living in about 200 households. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by fishing, and local shipping. Formerly, when holding dragon boat races, the village hoisted a red banner, indicating neutrality in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The sole surname in the village is Guo 郭. Up to the nineteenth generation, the Guo lineage still lived in Weitang Guozhuang 魏塘郭庄. Only in the 20th generation did some members of the lineage move to Shangge 上阁 (Shangguo 上郭). Nowadays, there are Guo surname groups in several nearby villages such as Shangguo 上郭, Beigang 北港, Zhu- zhuang 朱庄, and Qianting 前亭. There is a Guo ancestral hall where various lineage branches return to reassemble the linage. 3. Village temples 1) Shanggejing Xianyingmiao 上阁境显应庙 is the main overall temple of Shangguo 上郭 and is also the main temple of the Guo lineage in Beigang village 北港郭氏总宫. The temple was built in the Ming, and rebuilt in the Qing Qianlong and Daoguang periods. It was restored in 1983. The temple preserves stelae from Qing Qianlong 57 (1792) and Daoguang 16 (1836). The main altar is dedicated to: Imperially enfeoffed Zunzhu mingwang 敕封尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘. To the left is Yingji houwang 英济侯王 and to the right Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The temple also preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 50 (1785) entitled 显应庙社租序 (Preface on the rents contributed to the Temple and Shê-altar of Manifest Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:260, No. 223). 2) Fengshan zumiao 凤山祖庙 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. To the left are Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, and Song yuanshuai 宋元帅. To the right are Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Zhong yuanshuai 钟元帅, Yang yuanshuai 杨元帅, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The temple plaque is from Qing Guangxu 10 (1884). 3) Jianhu shuyuan 鉴湖书院 was built in Qing Qianlong 58 (1793), and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. To the left is Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and to the right Luer baomu 鹿儿 保母. 4) Chuanmingting 传名亭 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang daye 张大爷, Sun erye 孙二爷 and Ma jiangjun 马将军. 5) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Tiandijun xinshi 天地君新师. On the left is Liang Puyao 梁普耀 and on the right Chen Zhida 陈志达. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records forty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, five palm sedan chairs are prepared for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘 who go on a procession around the village, assisted by the former year’s Fushou 老福首. On 1/16 the villages take turns hosing the general Yuanxiao celebration at the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社. The set up elaborate food displays at the Xingyingmiao 显应庙 and invite five Daoist ritual master to hold a jiao ritual 做醮, assisted by the newly selected Fushou 新福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/26: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The celebration of Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王. The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Yingji houwang 英济侯王 and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘. 4/20: The celebration of Zhang daye 张大爷. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅诞辰. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 10/10: Xiayuan pudu Lanpen 下元普度兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 at the Sanyitang 三一堂. Marionette plays are performed. Funding is by voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple, the Sanyitang 三一堂, has already transformed into a village temple. 2/4: 2/23: 2/25: 3/6:Qianting 前亭 1. Village settlement Qianting village is a part of the Shuangfu Administrative Village 双福行政村. The population of Qianting village has approximately 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Weng 翁 are the dominant surname group. There are also two households of the Yu 俞 surname. There used to be a village nearby called Yuzhuang 俞庄, but it has been abandoned, and the Yu have spread out and moved elsewhere. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantingjing Tongxianmiao 前亭境通显庙 contains the altar of the Xingfu nanshê (southern she) 兴福南社. On the central altar are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (martial version), and Penggong yuanshuai 彭公 元帅. On the left altar is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Of the right altar is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (civil version). On the front altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) 明道堂 Mingdaotang is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 are invited to go on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night there is a procession around the village boundaries of lanterns. On 1/10 the gods of Tongxianmiao 通显庙 are invited to go on procession around the village, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/16 the villages take turns hosting the general Yuanxiao celebration at the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社. They invite five Daoist ritual master to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. On a day determined by divination, between 1/30 and 2/2, the village celebrates Toufu 头福, the day of beginning good fortune. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is the Mingdaotang 明道堂. Regular rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V498 Ketang 柯塘 1. Village settlement Ketang village belongs to the Ketang Administrative Village 柯塘行政村. The village of Ketang has a population of over 1300 people. Ketang is divided into three neighborhoods: Xizhi 西置, Houpai 后 牌, and Oulincheng 欧林埕. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by local shipping. 2. Surname groups Huang 黄 and the Cai 蔡 are the dominant surname groups. There are also households surnamed the Li 李, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, the Ou 欧, and the Lin 林. The Huang came from Huangan (Huangxiang) in Hanjiang 涵江黄岸(黄巷) and live in Xizhi 西置. The Cai came from Nanpo Xialin village 南坡下林村 and live in Houpai 后牌, where then originally had fourteen large compound houses. The Li came from Duotou in Hanjiang 涵江哆头 and have only four households. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: The Beijidian 北极殿 was restored in 1981 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left mural: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. Right mural: Baban 八班. The Nuo office altar 傩神公案 is for Li jiangjun 李将军. 2) Ketangjing Xingfu xishê 柯塘境兴福西社 was rebuilt in Qing Guangxu 34 (1908), and restored in the early Republican period, in 1984 and in 2000. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. On the left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. In the Niangma gong 娘妈宫: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Xingyundong 兴云洞 was founded in the early Republican period, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, left Generals 左将军. 4) Ciyungong 慈云宫 is dedicated to Xusheng tianfei 许圣天妃. 5) Nantiangong 南天宫 is in Xingcuoli 新厝里 and is dedicated to Li shengmu 李圣母. Chen daren 陈大人 and Xu daren 徐大人. 6) Meilanxuan 梅兰轩 is in Xincuoli 新厝里 and is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, On left and right are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lan daren 兰大人 and Xu daren 徐大人. 7) 绍本堂 Shaobentang is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records eighty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 The Huang of Xizhi 西置角 黄 invite the gods of the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社 to go on a tour of inspection procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Lanterns are taken on a procession. On 1/13, the god is returned to the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On 1/14 the Cai of Houpai 后牌角蔡 invite the gods of the Xingfu xishê 兴福 西社 to go on a tour of inspection procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Lanterns are taken on a procession. On 1/15 the god is returned to the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On 1/16 the neighborhoods take turns hosting the general Yuanxiao at the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On a day between 1/30– 2/2 determined by divination, the village celebrates toufu 头福, beginning good fortune. Three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 who are taken on a procession through the entire village. Spirit mediums 神童 chonghua 冲花 (lit: showering flowers—of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman Candle firework) and perform fire walking 踏火. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/5: The celebration of Xincuoli 新厝里 Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/26: The celebration of Xincuoli 新厝里 Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8/15: The celebration of Xusheng tianfei 许圣天妃. 8: 23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/25: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/28: The celebration of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/28: The celebration of Zhuangshi furen 张氏夫人. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xingfu xishê 兴福西社 Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and the Li jiangjun 李将军 of Beijidian 北极殿 each possesses a different spirit medium, all of whom perform exorcistic dances 行儺 during the Yuanxiao festival. The village Three in One temple is called the Shaobentang 绍本堂 and is in Xincuoli 新厝里. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A111 Xianying shijing (Xianying ten territory ritual alliance) 显应十境 The Xianying ten territory ritual alliance is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Weitangpu 魏塘舖 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Weitang 魏塘 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Guozhuang 郭庄, Qianzhuang 前庄, Guanqian 关前, Houxu 后许, Zhutoupu 锄头埔, Yangchijiao 洋池角, Houting 厚亭, Zhuangli 庄里, and Qiangang 前港 separated off. Currently this area is managed by Xianying 显应 and Dongdun Administrative Villages 东墩二行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of village settlements into the eastern five village alliance 东五境 and the western five-village alliance 西五境 Villages included in the eastern alliance are Xigang 西港, Zhuangcuo 庄厝, Yangchi 洋池, Houting 后亭, and Xiayang 下洋. The western alliance includes Weitang 魏塘, Guozhuang 郭庄, Dongdun 东墩, Puqian 铺前, and Xiayu 下宇. The Xianyingmiao 显应庙 (also called the Great Shê 大社) of Weitang village 魏塘 is the main temple of the ten village ritual alliance 十境总宫. The Rendeli Xianyingmiao 仁德里显应庙, known as the Great shê-altar 大社, originally had three halls, but later it was torn down and the site was converted into the Xianying Elementary School. In 1983, Yangong taishi 杨公太师 appeared in a dream to the director of the temple management committee Guo Jinguang, who fortuitously encountered some Singapore Overseas Chinese revisiting their home village, and with their help and that of the villagers of the ten village alliance, the temple was rebuilt, and then later it was expanded in 1993. Currently the temple has a front and a back hall. A plaque in the temple dates to the Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816). According to local legend, the god of the temple was repeatedly bestowed with imperial honors and enfeoffments. In the Song, he was enfeoffed Huwei jiangjun 护卫将军, and in the Yuan, his spouse was enfeoffed as Gaoming Zhangshi furen 诰命张氏夫人. In the Ming she was honored as Ciji huanghou 慈济皇侯. The main god is Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (here understood as being the Shêgong 社公) and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (the Shêma 社妈). On the left are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and the Guchuan xianling sanwei zhongjun, 古传显灵三位中军 (Xiao 萧, Ni 倪, and Wang 王). On the left Xianying ten jing ritual alliance are the smaller statues of the gods that go out on procession at Yuanxiao processions Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Shengzishen 圣子神, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Weigong taibao 魏公太保, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. In the hall on the left is the Lufu 鲁府, dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Lubu zhongjun 鲁部中军, and before the altar is the Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. This hall has a plaque dating from Qing Xianfeng 2 (1852). In the right hand hall, called the Hongrenci 弘仁祠, one finds Huang daye 黄大爷, Li daye 李大爷, Xiedaye 谢大爷, and Yahan zhongjun 亚汉中军. From 1/8–16, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 take turns visiting each household on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/17 all the gods return to the temple, and Daoist masters conduct a jiao. In the fourth lunar month the birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated, and each village in the alliance takes turns sponsoring opera. On 5/5, the celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. On 7/7, the celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. On 6/2, the celebration of Weigong yuanshuai is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. At this time, a procession is held around the ten village ritual alliance. In the eighth lunar month the birthday of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 is held and each village in the alliance sponsors opera at the main temple. Historically, the Guo lineage of Weitang 魏塘郭氏 were a prominent local lineage. In Song Shaoxing 13 (1143) and in the Yuan Zhizheng period (1341– 68), a Xiaozi 孝子 (filial son) memorial archway was set up in their honor. A stone inscription composed in Qiandao 1 (1165) by Lin Guanchao 林光朝 entitled 郭氏旌表门闾记 (Record of the ceremonial archway of Guo [the Filial Son]) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:25, No. 23) details the miraculous filiality of the founding ancestor. The stone inscription composed in Dade 5 (1301) by Huang Zhongyuan 黄仲元 entitled 孝节郭公祠堂记 (Record of the Shrine to the Honorable Guo, the Filial and Upright) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:59, No. 52) is also about this ancestral shrine. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Xianying ten village alliance was part of the red banner alliance. 
V499 Weitang 魏塘 1. Village settlement The village of Weitang has a population of over 800 people living in approximately 180 household. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname group is by far the dominant surname in the village, but there are also one household each surnamed 方 and Xu 徐. The Chen moved to the village from Dongyang 东阳 near Putian city, and are the Fushan Chen 浮山陈氏. Their ancestral hall is called the Shishi yuci 世侍御祠 and in it are worshipped painted images of seven ancestors. According to legend, the ancestors of the Chen came to Fujian at the end of the Tang during the Huangchao 黄巢 rebellion from Gushi in Henan 河南固始县. Originally they lived in Fengting in Xianyou 仙游 枫亭. A third generation Chen won first place in the imperial exams, and in the fourth generation, they moved to Hezhai 灵川何寨 in Lingchuan. In their eighth generation they lived in Xialin near Putian city 莆田下林村, and at that time in three generations they produced five jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) 三代五进士. At the end of the Song, the 13th generation Chen escaped disorder by moving to Dongyang 东阳 east of the Putian walled city. In the Ming Yongle period, the 20th generation Chen Mengyu 陈孟玉, now known as the founding ancestor Master Shaocun 少村公, moved to Weitang and built the Shishi yuci 世侍御祠 lineage hall. The Chen have now reached their 27th generation. Another legend states that the Guo 郭 of Xianying 显应 produced an exemplar of filial piety in the Song dynasty, and that an imperially bequeathed shrine was built for him. Unfortunately, a later descendant offended the court and in order to escape the punishment of death to all relatives to the third degree, many Guo changed their name to Wei 魏 and took Weigong Taibao 魏公太保 as a protector spirit 保护神, and so the village name was changed to Weitang 魏塘. The remaining Guo families in the village have moved to Shangguo 上郭 village. 3. Village temples 1) Rendeli Weitangjing Xianying xishê 仁德里魏塘境 显应西社 is dedicated to Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (Shêgong 社公) and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (Shêma 社妈). On the left are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. On the right are smaller statues used in processions of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Weigong taibao 魏公太保, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 16 (1836) entitled 重建显应社题 捐碑 (Stele on the contributors to the reconstruction of the earth god temple of Manifest Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:304, No. 268). 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Zongming shuyuan 宗明书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) 庆化堂 Qinghutang is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 in the afternoon, the villagers go the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 out on a procession. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/14 a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort the gods of the Xianying dashê. Early in the second lunar month, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held, and the gods of the Xianying xishê 显应西社 are invited out to perform an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 6/2: The celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 is held. 8/3: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Three in One temple is called the Zongming shuyuan 宗明书院, and it holds rituals every 1st and 15th of each month. A Buddhist nunnery called the Qinghutang 庆化堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 and also holds Buddhist rites. 
V500 Guozhuang 郭庄 1. Village settlement Guozhuang village was originally called Guocang 郭仓. The village has a population of approximately 800 people living in 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, but many men work in construction and many young women work in shoe factories. The level of education is high in this village, which has a number of foreign Ph.D.s to its credit. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Guo 郭. It is said that the Guo of the village came to Fujian from Gushi district in Henan province 河南固始. First they moved to Xianyou 仙游, and later moved to Xianying 显应. The founding ancestor in the village was Guo Yizhong 郭义重. Subsequently, the lineage divided into six branches, with Guozhang 郭庄 as the direct line of the eldest son 长房. The other branches are in Xiayu 下宇, Ketang 柯塘, Jiangdong 江东, Huazhong 华中, Qinyuan Houlin 沁园后林, and Qibu Zhuxiang 七步朱巷. Formerly there was an ancestral hall in Guozhuang but it no longer exists. The lineage is in the twelfth generation since their ancestor, the Qing dynasty figure, Guo Dianqing 郭殿卿, attained his Jinshi degree (Metropolitan Graduate). Local legend claims that Guzhuang 郭庄 is the home of the parents of Guo Yizhong 郭义重, a Song paragon of virtue who received a sign from Heaven confirming his filial piety, and for whom the court had a shrine built. In recent years, various branches of the Guo lineage from Hui’an 惠安 to Henan 河南 have visited Guozhuang to confirm its importance to the history of the lineage within Fujian. These efforts received government approval in 1985. Other legends link Guzhuang village with the landholdings of the Guo lineage, and suggest that the parents of GuoYizhong had hidden there to avoid implication in the crimes of another lineage member. 3. Village temples 1) Baoxingmiao 宝兴庙 is divided into the main hall and a side hall. The main hall is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Jingong daren 金公大人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The side hall is a Lufu 鲁府, and is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 villagers go to the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On 1/14–15 after completing a tour of inspection procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, the gods are escorted back to Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/26–27, there is a procession of gods in the village, performances of opera, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: A celebration for all the gods 文武诸神 is held. 8/10: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V501 Dongdun 东墩 1. Village settlement The village of Dongdun has a population of approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into seven neighborhoods: Houtian 后田, Touqian 头前, Xuesheng 学盛, Kutou 堀头, Jindian 锦店, Xiadongdun 下东墩, and Dali 搭里. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by fishing. The village has two dragon boats, and raises a red banner during races. 2. Surname groups The Tian 田 are the dominant surname, with some 230 households There are also some households surnamed the Chen 陈, the Zeng 曾, the Cao 曹, the Shen 沈, and the Weng 翁. The Tian moved to the village from Zhongmen 忠门. Originally there was a Tian ancestral hall, but it has been converted into the village old persons association 老人协会. 3. Village temples 1) Dongdunjing Xianying xishê 东墩境显应西社 contains the Zhongxiaotan 忠孝坛, and was restored in 1989. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, To the right is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baifu daren 白府大人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Further left are Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, and further right are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. 2) Zhongxiaotan 忠孝坛 is linked to the Yunshuidian 云水殿 and is dedicated to a Nuo exorcistic god 傩神, and to Shi jiangjun 施将军 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Mingqingtang 明清堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 record thirty-six initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, in the afternoon, villagers go the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 out on a procession. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/17 a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders sends off the gods of the Xianying dashê. Early in the second lunar month, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Deng yuanshuai 邓元帅, Leixin puhua tianzun 雷心普化天尊, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances 6/2: The celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no organized tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association. However, there are several spirit mediums in their 50s who are possessed by the following gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Deng yuanshuai 邓元帅, Leixin puhua tianzun 雷心普化 天尊, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shi jiangjun 施将军. These men usually work outside the village, and only return at Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods in order to take part in xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. At these times, they recite invocations of the gods until the god possesses them. The village Three in One temple is called the Mingqingtang 明清堂. It holds rites on the 1st and 15th of each month. 
V502 Puqian 铺前 1. Village settlement Puqian was originally called Chutoupu 锄头铺 or Puqian 埔前. The village of Puqian has a population of over 450 people, living in about 110 households. The main livelihood in farming, although are carpenters, construction workers, or workers in lacquer or shoe factories. The old imperial postal route went through this village. From Dingpu 顶铺 in Hanjiang 涵江 to Puqian 莆田 was the space of one pu (police/defense unit), thus Puqian got its name. The village was a red banner village in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Yao 姚. It is said the first Yao ancestor to enter Fujian 福建, founding ancestor Master Tianming 天明, was a man of Gushi 固始 district in Henan 河南, who attained his Jinshi Metropolitan Graduate status in Tang Qianning 4 (897). In Guanghua 1 (898), he took a post as Magistrate of Houguan 侯官, and later settled in Shaoxi in Putian 莆田韶溪, near the border between Jiangkou 江口 and Fuqing 福清. His descendants divided into three lineage branches, called Meng 孟, Zhong 仲, and Ji 季. The direct first born branch settled in Cixi near Ningbo in Zhejiang 浙江宁波慈溪. The second branch subdivided into three more branches: The Chaozhang 朝璋, Chaosi 朝嗣 and Chaogui 朝 圭. The fourteenth generation descendant of the Chaozhang 朝璋 branch moved to Yangshan 畅山, while the Chaosi 朝嗣 branch descendents moved to Hanjiang Puqian 涵江铺前, Jianqian 鉴前 and Xitianwei Chengzhu 西天 尾澄渚, Houhuang 后黄, Donghuang 东黄 and Xiafuxiang 下府巷 in Putian city. The third branch moved to Hanjiang Anren 涵江安仁 and Qinyuan 沁园. The Qinyuan 沁园 branch has already reached the 32nd generation, and in 1989 they built the Zhongqin daxiaoci 忠沁大孝祠 ancestral hall, and edited a Yao lineage genealogy. The Hanjiang 涵江 Tangbei 塘北 Elementary school is located in the Yao ancestral hall, and one can still see a Qianlong period plaque there. Puqian 铺前 originally had a Yao ancestral hall, but it no longer survives. The tomb of the 16th generation ancestor of the Yao lineage is in the foothills of the Shipan 石盘 mountains in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Rendeli Puqianjing Yunfengtang 仁德里铺前境云 峰堂 was built in Qing Xuantong 3 (1911). In 1982 new god statues were carved and in 1990 the temple was restored. In front of the temple is a large canal, which is said to contain the lair of a Carp spirit. The main altar is dedicated to Jinfu daren 金府大人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To the left are Sanwei xianshi 三位仙师 and to the right Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. An altar in the temple is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and is used for spirit writing, and exorcisms. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to organize the rituals. Two elders are called the Datou 大头 and the two unmarried ones are called the xiaotou 小头. Usually a single Daoist master is invited from Zhenqian 镇前 to conduct rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The celebration for Jinfu daren 金府大人. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/28: The celebration for Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance were revived at the end of the 1970’s and in the early 1980’s. The Lanpen 兰盆 ritual was performed again, once every three years, on 10/29. 5. Ritual Groups The village has a spirit medium who is possessed by Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣君, and who can transmit spirit writing 扶乩 and perform exorcistic dance 行儺. 
V503 Xigang 西港 1. Village settlement Xigang was originally called Qiangang 前港. The village of Xigang has over 400 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 surname group is the dominant group. There are also the minor surnames Chen 陈 and Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing Xianying dongshê 钱江境显应东 社, also contains the Xianyinggong 显应宫. The temple originally was the Dafuci 大夫祠 ancestral hall of the Huang lineage 黄氏. In 1958 it was torn down and turned into a pig breeding station. Recently it has been rebuilt as a temple. The main altar is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The front altar is for Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Zongyutang 宗裕堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 in the afternoon, villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/10 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/22, at the end of the Yuanxiao period, the village organizes a chonghua 冲花 ritual (lit: showering flowers—of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman candle firework). Spirit mediums from nearby villages are invited to compete in tests of endurance and to perform exorcistic dances (行儺) . Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. In the eighth lunar month on a day determined by divination villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are no Daoist ritual masters in the village, but there are spirit mediums who are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. They perform exorcistic dances, xingnuo 行傩, during the Yuanxiao festival. The village Three in One temple is called the Zongyutang 宗裕堂. Rituals are held on the 1st and 15th of each month. 
V504 Zhuangcuo 庄厝 1. Village settlement Zhuangcuo was originally called Zhuangli 庄里. The village of Zhuangcuo has over 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The main surname group are the Lin 林. There are also some households surnamed Zeng 曾 and Shen 沈. 3. Village temples 1) Zhuangcuojing Dongyuandian 庄厝境东元殿 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. To the right is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Mingqingtang 明清堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 in the afternoon, villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/13 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/28–29, at the end of the Yuanxiao period, the village organizes a chonghua 冲花 ritual (lit: showering flowers of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman candle firework). Spirit mediums from nearby villages are invited to come to Zhuangcuo 庄厝 to compete in tests of endurance and to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 7/28: villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups This village has no organized tanban 坛班 altar association or Daoist ritual masters. There are spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed by Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. On Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods in they take part in xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. At these times, they recite invocations of the gods until the god possesses them. The village Sanyijiao temple is called the Mingqingtang 明清堂, and there are rituals held on the first and fifteenth of every month. 
V505 Yangchi 洋池 1. Village settlement Yangchi was originally called Yangchijiao 洋池角. Yangchi village has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. The Lin 林 and the He 何 are minor surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Yangchijing qingyundian 洋池境青云殿 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Sanwei guniang 三位姑娘. To the right are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军, and Sanwei daye 三位大爷. 2) Qingdediang 清德殿 was built in recent years. The temple is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Sanwei guniang 三位姑娘, Daye 大爷 and Erye二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社 公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/11 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 8/2: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. 8/5: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V506 Xiayang 下洋 1. Village settlement Xiayang village has a population of 227 people. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the major surname group. The He 何 are the minor surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing Xianying zushê 钱江境显应祖社 was originally the founding shê altar of the entire ten village ritual alliance 十境 祖社, but now belongs to the eastern five village ritual alliance. The temple is dedicated to Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Yaochici 瑶池祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records forty-two initiates. 3) Shandeci 善德祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records fifty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 in the afternoon, together with Houting village 后亭村, villagers go to their own Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/9 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On 2/2, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 and the Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 9/3: The celebration of the Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and the Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 of Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a spirit medium in the village who is possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods he performs xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. 
V507 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting was originally called Houting 厚亭. The village of Houting has approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 are the main surname group in the village. There are also minor surname groups of the Chen 陈 and the Zeng 曾. The Wu moved from Putian city, and it is said that they were originally sent here to look after the gravesites of the Wu lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Houtingjing Ruiyun zumiao 后亭境瑞云祖庙 is shared jointly with Xiayang village 下洋村. The temple is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shitai daoren 石胎道人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 in the afternoon, together with Xiayang village 下洋村, the villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/17 in the evening, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On 2/2, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 and the Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 8/24: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V508 Xiayu 下宇 1. Village settlement Xiayu was originally called Xiaxu 下许. The village of Xiayu has over 100 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname group This village is a mixed surname village. This is called “in seven households there are eight surnames and nine widows” 七户八姓 九寡妇. Currently the following surnames can be found in the village: the Zeng 曾, the You 游, the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘, the He 何, the Guo 郭, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xiayujing Xianyinggong 下宇境显应宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. To the right is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baifu daren 白府大人, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 in the afternoon, the villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/16 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
A112 Anren qijing (Anren sevenfold ritual alliance) 安仁七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Anren 安仁六村 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Nijiang Beigangpu 霓江北港舖 and the Lidunpu 利墩舖 (police/defense unit) of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Qing theAnren sevenfold ritual alliance villages of Beigang 北港 (also known as Xixu 西徐), Zhoudun 周墩, Xiajiang 下江, and Tiancen 田岑 were settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Xiafang 下方 and Jiakou 加口 separated off. Currently there are six natural villages managed by the Anren Administrative Village 安仁行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Anren zushê 安仁祖社 of Beigang 北港 is the founding shê altar of the six village ritual alliance七境祖社. The main gods are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (Shêgong 社公), Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (Shêma 社妈) and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the villages of the alliance goes to the temple to invite the gods to their village. It is said that formerly a joint, general Yuanxiao was celebrated at the temple, but collective rites and processions have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the end fo the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Anren was part of the red banner alliance. 
V509 Beigang 北港 1. Village settlement Beigang includes Xixu 西徐. The village population is approximately 800 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by working in construction. During dragon boat races, a red banner is raised. 2. Surname groups There are four main surname groups in the village, the Zhang 张, Chen 陈, Li 李, and the Guo 郭. The Guo moved to the village from Shangguo 上郭, and ever since have participated as a unit in the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 ritual activities. The village still has three incense burners 三社炉 inscribed with the names of the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. Each year each surname selects one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Anren zushê 安仁祖社 is the founding shê altar of the ritual alliance. The statues of the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 of Xixu 西徐 and Xiafang 下坊 are kept in this temple as well. On the main altar are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To left and right are the Xixujing 西徐境 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Xiakangjing 霞康境 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qingliantan 青莲坛 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, and the Li 李 Fushou 福首 each carry their shê-altar incense burners around the village. Each surname group receives the incense burners in their ancestral houses. That evening there is fire walking and opera. On 1/22, the Anren zushê 安仁祖社, together with Xiafang 下坊 village, invites Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on an exorcistic procession 行傩. The spirit medi- ums 神童 of each village are invited to 采花 (pick the flower flames) and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The Fushou 福首 organize these events, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Anren zushê 安 仁祖社 possesses a spirit medium 神童, who, on Yuanxiao, performs exorcistic dances 行傩. 
V510 Zhoudun 周墩 1. Village settlement Zhoudun has a population of approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by construction work. They raise a red banner during dragon boat races. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Wu 吴. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age to serve as organizers and hosts for the rituals of the year. Those men 58 and above are considered village elders 乡老. 3. Village temples 1) Zhoudunjing Anren nanshê 周墩境安仁南社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. To the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, to the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. To the left and right are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house 祖厝大厅. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/13 the gods are invited back to the shê temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封 路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns 乞火. On 1/26, the last night of Yuanxiao, the first opera of the year is performed 演 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 go out on an exorcistic procession 行儺. The spirit mediums from neighboring villages are invited to “gather fire-flowers” 神童采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/9: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 11/7: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, and the rituals are organized and hosted by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Yongxingtang 永兴堂 possess spirit mediums 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩 at Yuanxiao. 
V511 Xiajiang 下江 1. Village settlement Xiajiang village is also known as Xiaan 下安. The village population is approximately 800 people living in about 150 households. Farming is the main livelihood. 2. Surname groups The Fang 方 make up 80 households and the Chen 陈 make up 60 households. The Fang 方 are part of the Liugui Fang lineage 六桂方氏, and moved from Xitianwei 西天尾. The Chen 陈 claim to be part of the Yingshui Chen 颖水陈, and moved to Xiajinag village from Dongyang 东阳 outside Putian 莆田. They are thus part of the same lineage as the Xiagao Chen 下高陈 and the Jiangkou Xiadun Chen 江口下墩陈. There was originally a Chen ancestral hall but it is no longer extant. 3. Village temples 1) Xiajiangjing Anren dongshê 霞江境安仁东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the left and right are Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2) Chaoxiagong 朝霞宫 was built in Qing Jiaqing period ( 1796–1820), and was rebuilt in 1993. The temple preserves a Qing Jiaqing 20 (1815) carved couplet on two pillars, and a Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816) plaque. On the main altar are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To the left is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, to the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Zhibentang 至本堂 was rebuilt in 1987 and is dedicated to Fanxiang xianshi 范相仙师. On the left is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and on the right Kong daren 孔大人. 4) Jingyi shuyuan 精一书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, four palm sedan chairs are prepared for Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, who are taken on a procession around the village. Four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners. On 1/18 in the evening, opera is performed, and a procession is held around the village boundaries, and lanterns are paraded. Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 leads the exorcistic procession 行傩 and there is firewalking 踏火. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and three Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮祈福. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. In the eighth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the Fushou 福首 and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 11/5 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed by the Three in One Scripture masters of the Jingyitang 精一堂. 5. Ritual Groups The Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Chaoxiagong 朝霞宫 possesses spirit medium 神童, who performs exorcistic dances 行儺 during Yuanxiao. The village Three in One temple is called the Jingyi shuyuan 精一书院 or the Jingyitang 精一堂. This temple branched off from Huangan Xipo 黄安西坡, and was established by Liang Puyao 梁普耀. On the main altar is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left is Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, and to the right Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. There are over 45 initiates in the temple, who perform twice daily recitations of the Chashuijing 茶水经 and bi-monthly (first and fifteenth) recitations of the Bentijing 本体经 and the Sinijing 四尼经. 
V512 Xiafang 下坊 1. Village settlement Xiafang is also called Xiakang 霞康. The village population is approximately 300 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the dominant surname group, but there are a few Guo 郭 households. 3. Village temples Mingqinggong 名青宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left and right are Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Baban 八班, and Sijiang 四将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go to the Anren zushê 安仁祖社 to ask for incense fire 请香火 Then two Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession. Each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house in the village 祖厝大厅接驾 That night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. Daoist masters are invited to perform rites. On 1/26 the general Yuanxiao of 安仁祖社 is held. Together with Xixu village 西徐, Xiafang villagers invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to conduct an exorcistic dance 行傩. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flowerflames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/9: The celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅 is held. 9/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, and the events are hosted by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang duyuanshuai 黄 都元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Mingqinggong 名青宫 all possesa spirit mediums 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩 during Yuanxiao. 
V513 Jiakou 加口 1. Village settlement Jiakou village is also known as Gekou 隔口. The population of the village is about 300 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. Each year they each select Fushou 福首 in rotation of the basis of age. 3. Village temples 1) Gekoujing Anre zhongshê 隔口境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 3) Yuqingtang 裕庆堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 two Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners of the temple on procession. Each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house 祖厝大厅. That night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. Fushou 福首 organize the rituals, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Yuqingtang 裕庆堂 and it is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Daye 大爷. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V514 Tiancen 田岑 1. Village settlement The village of Tiancen has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The only surname in the village is the Chen 陈. They are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 who came from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口. The village has a Chen ancestral hall and it is there that each year three Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to look after the rituals of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Dengyingjing Anren zhongshê 登瀛境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Qingyigong 清溢宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. To left and right are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and on the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. On the right and left are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 6) Zhibentang 致本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house. Daoists are invited to perform rites. On 1/13 the gods are escorted back to the temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns for their homes 乞火. On 1/26 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Fushou 福首主持, Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Three in One temple in the village 三一教祠. 
A113 Changfu qijing (Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance) 长福七境 The Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance 长福七境 is located at the meeting point between the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂, and contains the Xingang Sluice-gate 新港 斗门. This area was part of the Lidunpu 利墩舖, the Gangweipu 港尾舖 and the Xingang Houzhengpu 新港后郑舖 (police/defense units) of Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the early Qing, the villages of Lidun 利墩, Kundun 崑墩, Shangzheng 上郑, Xinggnag 新港. Houzheng 厚郑, Gangbian 港边, and Gangwei 港尾 were all settled in this area. In the late Qing and early Republican period the village of Daduxia 大度下 separated off. These villages are all managed by the Zhoudun 周墩 and Jiangwei Administrative Villages 江尾行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Changfu zushê 长福祖社 located in Lidun 利墩 village is the founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境祖社. The Changfu zushê 长福祖 was built in the Ming Zhengde period (1506–1521) and collapsed in the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850). In 1991 it was rebuilt on its original foundations. The main altar is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the left and right are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Each year on 3/23, on the birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, the goddess is carried in a procession through all the seven villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. The ritual alliance includes the following seven shê-altars: the Lidun zushê 利墩祖社, the Xingang changfushê 新港 长福社, the Houzheng beishê 后郑北社, the Shangzheng xishê 上郑西社, the Dadu xiaxishê 大度下西社, the Jiangbian zhongshê 江边中社 and the Jiangwei dongshê 江尾东社. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Jiang bian 江边 and Jiangwei 江尾 were part of the white banner alliance, while all the other villages were part of the red banner alliance. Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance Lidun 利墩 1. Village settlement The village of Lidun has a population of 643 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 surname group is predominant in the village. Each year five Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the annual rituals. 3. Village temples 1) Lidunjing Changfu zushê 利墩境长福祖社 includes the Chongfugong 崇福宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To left and right are Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 (who divided off from the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫), Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (another name for the Shêgong 社公), and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (the Shêma 社妈). 2) Xinxingting 新兴亭 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人, known in this area as Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 both have spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed and perform exorcistic dance 行傩 during Yuanxiao and on the god’s birthdays. 
V516 Houzheng 后郑 1. Village settlement Houzheng is also known as Houzheng 厚郑. The population of Houzheng village is over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are by far the dominant surname group. There are also some households surnamed the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Houzhengjing Changfu beishê 后郑境长福北社 contains the Xingxiangong 兴显宫. The main altar is for Zhanggong sheng   jun 张公圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left and the right are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Tiancifu 天慈府 is dedicated to Chen xiannü 陈仙女 and Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/3: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 both have spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed and perform exorcistic dance 行傩 during Yuanxiao and on the god’s birthdays. 
V517 Xingang 新港 1. Village settlement The village of Xingang has a population of over 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups including the Lin 林, the Zheng 郑, and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingangjing Changfushê 新港境长福社 includes the Xinxinggong 新兴宫. The main altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. To the left are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and to the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xianfudong 仙福洞 is dedicated to Li xianshi 李仙师 and Daye 大爷. 3) Liujitang 流寂堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 12/25: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis.Daduxia 大度下 1. Village settlement The village of Daduxia has over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin, which has over two thirds of the village population, and maintains a Lin ancestral hall 林氏 祠堂. There are also some households surnamed Xu 许, etc. 3. Village temples 1) Xilinjing Changfu xishê 西林境长福西社 includes the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥 大将, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝诞辰. 9/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V519 Shangzheng 上郑 1. Village settlement The village of the Shangzheng has a population of over 170 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname. There are also households surnames the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Shangzhengjing Changfu xishê 上郑境长福西社 includes the Fuxinggong 福星宫. The temple branched off from Daduxia 大度下. On the main altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Changxingdian 长兴殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. To left and right are Wugong yuanshuai 吴公 元帅, Qianliyan 千里眼 and Shunfenger 顺风耳. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Each year with an intercalary month, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 goes on a procession throughout the entire sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 9/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V520 Jiangwei 江尾 1. Village settlement Jiangwei was originally called Gangwei 港尾. The village of Jiangwei has a population of over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. Originally many households made straw mats as a supplementary source of income. Nowadays most men work in construction and young women work in shoe factories. The village belonged to the white banner alliance in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname group. They are either Kuokou Chen 阔口陈 from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, in which case they are related to the Chen of Chenqiao village 陈桥陈, or they are the Shoushan Chen 寿山陈, who came from Shoushan 寿山. 3. Village temples 1) Meijiangjing Changfu dongshê 湄江境长福东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 2) Qingyunmiao 青云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. To the left and right are Chen daye 陈大爷, Zhou daye 周大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷, Li daye 李大爷, and Huang daye 黄大爷. 3) Xiatiandong 霞天洞 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To left and right are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Wu daren 乌大人. 4) Chilinan 赤林庵 was built in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–18, Yuanxiao is celebrated, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路, and three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. Bells are rung and drums are beaten until the spirit mediums are possessed by the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. The Fushou 福首 take turns taking care of the rituals. 
V521 Jiangbian 江边 1. Village settlement Jiangbian is also known as Gangbian 港边. The village of Jiangbian has a population of over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by laboring in construction. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. They moved to Jiangbian from Mendou 门兜 in Putian 莆田 city. They have divided into three lineage branches. They once had an ancestral hall but it has been converted into a school. 3. Village temples 1) Taojiangjing Changfu zhongshê 陶江境长福中社 was rebuilt in 1991. The main altar is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the left altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. On the right altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. In the left hall, the Xiashuitang 夏水堂, are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Daye 大爷. In the right hand hall, the Wanxingdian 万兴殿 are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Guangxiatang 光夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the general Yuanxiao festival is held and two spirit medium 神童 are possessed by the gods, and issue a proclamation from the gods 出榜. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. On some occasions up to five Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 take turns organizing the rituals. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a day in the 11th lunar month determined by divination by the Three in One initiates of the village who conduct the Lanpen 兰盆 rites. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Guangxiatang 光夏堂 and is also known as the Yuying shuyuan 毓英书院 was built in Qianlong 3.(1738) and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left and right are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A114 Chongsheng sanshê (Chongsheng three shê ritual alliance) 崇圣三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Chongsheng is located along the main channel diverting water from besides the Taiping Weir 太平陂, which lies across the upper reaches of the Qiulu river, to the north of the northern irrigated plain. This area was part of the Fenglin waipu 枫林外铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing, the villages of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, Hutoulin 虎头林, Nanshan 南山, Ganyan 柑园, Lingxia 岭下, Tingkeng 廷坑 and Duxia 度下 were settled. Currently these villages are managed by the Chongsheng Administrative Village 崇圣行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to shê-altars and temples into the three shê-altars of Fuxingshê 福兴社, Fuanshê 福安社 and Fuchongshê 福崇社. The Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 temple, located in Meilou 美楼 village, is the main temple for the three shê ritual alliance. The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year on lunar 1/15– 16 a collective Yuanxiao celebration is held by the three shê and the gods of the Chongshenggong are carried in procession to each of the shê altars of the alliance. 
V522 Meilou 美楼 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Chongshenggong 崇圣宫: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣候, Dujiao jiangjun 独角将军, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 
A114 Chongsheng three shê ritual alliance 2) Fuxingshê 福兴社: this temple belongs to the villages of Meilou 美楼, Bannan 半南, Qiaozitou 桥仔头, Gonghou 宫后, Xiaban houkeng 下班后 坑, Songshê 宋社, Dachikou 大池口, Pinglingtou 坪岭头, and Waiduxia 外度下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, All the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebrations are organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V523 Chongshê 崇社 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Yu 俞. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Chongshengyuan 崇圣院 was rebuilt in 2002. The main god is Jialan sanbao 迦蓝三宝. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Pangu diwang 盘古帝王, Zhutian dadi 注天大帝, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is orga   nized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V524 Waiduxia 外度下 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Qiu 邱. 3. Village temples Beitouan 陂头庵: The main god is Baima xianggong 白马相公. Secondary gods include Zuoyou jiangjun 左右将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongsheng gong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Fuxing shê 福兴社. 10/9: The birthday celebration of Baima jiangjun 白马将军. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V525 Songbaige 松柏戈 1. Village settlement There are thirty-three households in total in the village, with approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Fuanshê 福安社: This is the main shê altar of the villages of Songbaige 松柏戈 (Chen 陈), Lingxia 岭下 (Zeng 曾), Tianwei 田尾 (Li 李), Houan 后安 (Li 李), Fengting 枫亭 (Li 李), Banling 半岭 (Han 韩), Zhaili 宅里 (Huang 黄), and Yanli 晏里 (Huang 黄). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuanshê 福安社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This organized by the all the villages belonging to this shê altar all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V526 Ganyuan 柑园 1. Village settlement The village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangwu 上吴 and Xiawu 下吴. The total population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Fuchongshê 福崇社: This is the main shê altar of villages including Hulin 胡林 (Lin 林), Guoxi 过溪 (Lin 林), Xian 西安 (Lin 林), Chitou 池头 (Chen 陈), Ganyuan 柑园 (Wu 吴), Shancen 山岑 (Lian 连), Lingxia 岭下 (Li 李), Qiaozitou 桥仔头 (Li 李), Dingdapu 顶大埔 (Li 李), Xiadapu 下大埔 (Li 李), and Litang 利塘 (Huang 黄). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuchongshê 福崇社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuchongshê 福崇社. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A115 Lingci qijing (Lingci sevenfold ritual alliance) 灵慈七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingci is located along the main irrigation channel emerging from the Taiping Weir into the northern sector of the northern irrigated plain 太平陂下圳. This area was part of the Dongzhang shanhoupu 东张山后铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the Ming, the villages of Dongzhang 东张 and Hongdu 洪度 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Jiuqiu 九坵 and Houting 后 亭 divided off. In the late Qing and early Republican period, the villages of Nanshan 南山, Anjun 安君, Houkeng 后坑, Guocuo 郭厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Tiancuo 田厝 and Beicheng 北埕 separated off. These villages are managed by three Administrative Villages, namely Dongzhang 东张, Shuangting 双亭 and Hongshang 洪南行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. Lingcigong 灵慈宫 temple, located in Hongdu 洪度 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every twelve years, the goddess is carried on a procession through the villages of the alliance, as well as to nearby villages. Currently, Dongzhang 东张 has already detached itself from the sevenfold ritual alliance, so Dongzhang no longer participates in the year-round ritual activities of Lingcigong. Nonetheless, Dongzhang still takes part in the great procession of Mazu 妈祖 of Lingcigong that is held once every twelve years. The route for this procession is as follows: Yianshê 义安社, Fuanshê 福安社, Wananshê 万安社, Longshangong 龙山宫, Tongjishê 通济宫, Fushoushê 福寿社, Lingyinshê 灵隐社, Denglongshê 登龙社, Chongfutang 崇福堂, Wanlingong 万麟宫, and Xianggong fushê 香龙福社. 
V527 Nanshan 南山 1. Village settlement Nanshan is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangnan 上南 and Zhongnan 中南. The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zeng 曾, the Li 李, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Shi 施, and the Zhang 张. There is no main surname group.Lingci sevenfold ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Chongfushê 崇福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Chonglongshê 崇隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Shangnan 上南 invites all the gods of Chongfushê 崇福社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/10, Zhongnan 中南 invites all the gods of Chonglongshê 崇隆社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chongfushê 崇福社. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Chonglongshê 崇隆社 is held. On both these above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by each shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V528 Hongdu 洪度 1. Village settlement Hongdu is divided into two ritual territories: the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡 ritual territories. The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Lingcigong 灵慈宫 contains the Yi’anshê 义安社, Anfushê 安福社, Chongfuhe 崇福社, Baofushê 保福社, Chonglongshê 崇隆社, and Chongxingshê 崇兴社. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lingong shenghou 林公圣候, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣候. 2) Chongxingshê 崇兴社: This is the shê-altar of Kengtou 坑头, Dudong 度冬, Gongxia 宫下, Dinghoukeng 顶后坑, and Anjun 安君. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Wushangong 武山宫: The main god is Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 4) Zhenlingong 振麟宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 5) Qingyundian 庆云殿: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Ma Jia erjiangjun 马贾二将军. 6) Dongfangmiao 东方庙: The main god is Kusi dawang 库司大王. 7) Kengtousi 坑头寺: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo hufa 韦驮护法 and Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the Lingcigong 灵慈宫 welcomes the gods back from heaven 接神. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the temple, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On 1/12, all the gods of Chongxingshê 崇兴社 and Wushangong 武山宫 are invited to go on procession within the Caijing 蔡境. This is organized by the Cai 蔡, and funds are collected from amongst them on a per capita basis. On 1/13, all the gods of Chongxingshê 崇兴社, the Zhenlingong 振麟宫, and the Qingyundian 庆云殿 are invited to go on a procession within the Linjing 林境. This is organized by the Lin 林, and funds are collected from amongst them on a per capita basis. On all such occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chongxingshê 崇兴社. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This is organized by Xiating ritual jing 下亭境, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Movies are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Linjing 林境. 4/28: The birthday celebration of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 is organized by the Lingcigong 灵慈宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Lingcigong 灵慈宫 of Xiatingjing 下亭境. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Lin 林. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by Lingci gong 灵慈宫. 8/23 is the celebration of the Tuofan 脱凡 day of apotheosis of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Lin 林. The celebration for the day of ascension of Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 is organized by Lingcigong 灵慈宫. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Lingong shengjun 林公圣侯 is organized by the Xiatingjing 下亭境. On all these occasions, either opera is performed, or else marionette plays or movies are offered. Contributions are raised per capita, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites for the gods. 9/9:Jiaqiu 九坵 1. Village settlement The total population of Jiaqiu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. There exists a Li ancestral hall 李氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 2) Xianshengdian 显圣殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, all the gods of Anfushê 安福社 are invited to go on procession within its village. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/26: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V530 Xiacuo 下厝 1. Village settlement Xiacuo is part of the Xiatingjing下亭境. The village includes Xiahouting 下后亭. The total population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Fulongmiao 绂龙庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianmingdian 显名殿: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Langong daren 蓝公大人, Jingong daren 金公大人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, all the gods of Xianmingdian 显名殿 are invited to go on procession within its village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the event all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of Baofushê 保福社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is all organized by the Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Opera and rituals are performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Opera and rituals are performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 Every second year, opera is performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê 保福社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V531 Guocuo 郭厝 1. Village settlement The total population of the village is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭 and the Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Baofushê 保福社 is the principal shê-altar of Xiacuo 下厝 (Xiahouting下后亭), Guocuo 郭厝, Beicheng 北埕, Shanghouting 上后亭, and Xiahoukeng 下后坑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shenggongdian 圣公殿: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣候, Jialan sanbao 伽蓝三宝, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Shenggongdian 圣公殿 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1 all the gods of Baofushê 保福社 go on a procession to each of the villages that are part of the alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Marionette operas are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, including rites of Universal Deliverance 普度. This is organized by Baofushê 保福社, and funds are collected based on the population size of each village. Shanghouting 上后亭 provides 20%, Xiating 下亭 (Xiacuo 下厝, Xiahouting 下后亭) provides 40%, Guocuo 郭厝 provides 10%, Beicheng 北埕 provides 20%, and Xiahoukeng 下后坑 provides 10%. 
V532 Shanghouting 上后亭 1. Village settlement The total population of Shanghouting is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Xuanyingdong 玄瀛洞 is also called the Sangongdian 三公殿. The main god is Lizu xianshi 李祖仙师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, all the gods of Xuanyingdong 玄瀛洞 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of the Baofushê 保福社 in Guocuo village go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Baofushê in Guocuo village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/17: The birthday celebration of Lizu xianshi 李祖仙师. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社 (of Guocuo village). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V533 Beicheng 北埕 1. Village settlement The total population of Beicheng is approximately 350 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples Fupinggong 福平宫: The main god is Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Huang zhongjun 黄中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, all the gods of Fupinggong 福平宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of the Baofushê 保福社 of Guocuo village go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社 of Guocuo village. Opera is performed., and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V534 Dongzhang 东张 1. Village settlement The total population of Dangzhang 东张 is around 895 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Lu 卢, the Liu 刘, the Wang 王, and the Cai 蔡. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yi’anshê 义安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Ziyunmiao 紫云庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Dongshan shuyuan 东山书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Zhuzi xiansheng 朱子先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4) Canglongmiao 苍龙庙: The main god is Kusi dawang 库司大王. 5) Yibentang 义本堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 all the gods of Yianshê 义安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Kusi dawang 库司大王. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V535 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The total population of Tiancuo is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yianshê 义安社 branched off from Yianshê 义安社 of Dongzhang 东张. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, all the gods of Yianshê 义安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A116 Qinhou wujia (Qinhou five jia ritual alliance) 沁后五甲 The five jia ritual alliance of Qinhou is located along the foothills of the Zixiao Mountain 紫宵山. The water for the irrigation of the fields of this area comes primarily from the Linquanbei Weir 林泉陂. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu (police/defense unit) 东张山后铺 of Xingjiaoli (subcanton) 兴教里. In the early Qing, the villages of Qinhou 沁后, Qinshan 沁山, Fushan 浮山 and Xiazheng 下邓 were settled. By the late Qing, the villages of Dingdeng 顶邓, Banling 半岭 and Wengcuo 翁厝 had separated off. The current population of the alliance is close to 3000 people, living in approximately 800 households. The main livelihoods are agriculture and forestry. Many villagers work in small foreign-funded enterprises. These villages are managed by the Qinhou Administrative Village 沁后行政村. Fuxingshê 福兴社, located in Dengcuo 邓厝 village, is the ancestral shê altar of the seven jia ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. During the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual associations of the alliance takes turns to go on procession to the temple to invite the gods back to their village. Collective rites and processions have not been revived. This area has eight main surname groups (ranked by population size): the Deng 邓, the Cai 蔡, the Weng 翁, the Ma 马, the Guan 关, the Chen 陈, the Zhu 朱 and the Hong 洪. The Deng 邓 came from Baimo Jiufeng 白磨 九峰. The Deng lineage is divided into four branches. The Cai 蔡 came from Chiding 池顶 village in Tongan 同安. These Cai are of the same ancestry as the Cai of Dongsha 东沙 in Lingchuan 灵川. There used to be an ancestral hall, but now the Qinhou elementary school 沁后小学 is located at the old site. The Cai lineage genealogy has recently been compiled but is yet to be printed. The origins of the Weng 翁 surname group is unknown. The Ma 马 came from Quanzhou 泉州. As for the Guan 关, the surname was originally the compound surname Shang Guan 上官. It was then shortened to Guan 关 for an unidentified reason. The Chen 陈 came from Chenqiao 陈桥, and Qinhou five jia ritual alliance have less than ten households in the alliance. Both the Hong 洪 and the Zhu 朱 came from Fushan 浮山. Both surname groups have very few people (only a few households each). There are also the Zheng 郑 and the Yao 姚 in Xiatiancuo 下田厝. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Qinghou villages were part of the white banner alliance. 
V536 Dengcuo 邓厝 1. Village settlement Dengcuo is divided into two jia 甲 neighborhoods: Shangdeng 上邓 and Xiadeng 下邓. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Deng 邓. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Fuxingshê 沁后境福兴社 was rebuilt in Qing Daoguang 21 (1841). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wuguxian 五谷仙 (Shennongshi 神农氏), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The Spring Festival 春节 celebrations are held on 1/1. The event is organized by the shê 社. Opera is performed for one to two days. On 1/15, the shêlu 社炉 incense burners is taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession and a feast is organized. There are no shentong mediums and the gods do not go on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/29: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three to six days. The event is hosted by the shê 社. 5/15: A celebration is held for Shennongshi 神农氏. The four jia of Heping 和平四甲 take turns to each sponsor one day of opera performances. 8/13: A celebration is held for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 . Opera is performed for around two days. This event is hosted by Niushan 牛山. The expense for opera performances is either raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. 5. Ritual groups There is a hereditary family of Daoist masters Shigong 师公 living in the village. 
V537 Niushan 牛山 1. Village settlement Niushan is also known as Fushan 浮山 and includes Guoshan. The population size is unknown. 2. Village Surnames Surnames include the Ma 马, the Hong 洪, and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Ruiyunmiao 沁后境瑞云庙 (Dapumiao 大埔庙). The main god worshipped is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Daoshantang 道善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Mingshantang 明山堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Jishansi 继善寺: This Buddhist monastery has been abandoned. There is currently a forest farm on the site of the former temple. 5) Qinhoujing Qinshanmiao 沁后境沁山庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods On 4/2–4, and on 4/8, a celebration is held for the birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This event is organized by Fushan 浮山. 3/3: A celebration is held for Xuantian shangdi’s 玄天上帝 birthday. Opera is performed for the birthday celebration of three to four days. This is funded by donations raised on a per capita basis. 
V538 Qinwei 沁尾 1. Village settlement There are approximately 850 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The surname groups are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Xinganshê 沁后境兴安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the shêlu 社炉 incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 12/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V539 Xiatiancuo 下田厝 1. Village settlement Xiatiancuo is also known as Minzhu 民主. There are approximately 400 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Xinglongshê 沁后境兴隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the shêlu 社炉 incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession and the gods of the village go on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/22: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is held. 
A117 (
V540 Weiyang sanjia (Weiyang three jia ritual alliance) 渭阳三甲 Weiyang 渭阳) 1. Village settlement The three jia alliance of Weiyang is located along the foothills of the Zixiao Mountains 紫霄山. The water for irrigating the fields is mostly drawn from the Mingcukeng trench 明厝坑圳 and the Shuangyikeng trench 双义坑圳, diverting water from the mountains behind the village. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu 东张山后铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing the village of Weizhuang 围庄 was settled here. There are currently 1100 people living in the village whose main livelihood is agriculture. Weiyang produces an abundance of dragon eyes (longan) 龙眼 and loquats 枇杷. The village is managed by the Weiyang Administrative Village 渭阳行政村. The temple ritual system is divded according to settlements into three ritual associations. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Weiyang was part of the red (neutral) banner alliance, but their leaned towards the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups the main surname group of Weicuo 尾厝 is the Huang 黄. Other surnames include more than ten Lin 林 households. The main surname groups in Banshan 半山 are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Lai 赖 and the Zhou 周. Shipaidou 石牌兜 has the Zhong 钟 and the Chen 陈. The Huang 黄 of Weiyang migrated from Weiyang three jia ritual alliance Anhai 安海 in Quanzhou 泉州 during the Qing Dynasty, and have now reached their eleventh generation. In the late Qing, these Huang were the greatest mercantile lineage in the Hanjiang region. The Huang built the Yixing ancestral hall 义兴宗祠 and the Ruiyu ancestral hall 瑞裕宗祠, but both have been abandoned. 3. Village temples 1) Weizhuangjing Huashanshê 渭庄境华山社 (also known as the Dongshê 东社): Located in Weicuo 尾厝, it was rebuilt in 1980. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sansheng zhejun 三圣真君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Left altar: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Jinlinmiao 金林庙 is located in Banshan 半山. The gods worshipped are: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Huashan xishê 华山西社 is located in Banshan 半山. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Secondary gods: Wugu daxian 五谷大仙. 4) Anfumiao 安福庙 is located in Banshen半山. Main gods: Tianshang shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Zhudaye 朱 大爷, Dou sheren 豆舍人, Erye 二爷 and Sanye 三爷. 5) Qingyundong 庆云洞 is located in Shipaidou 石牌兜. Main god: Zhong kui 钟馗. 6) Tongmingsi 通明寺 is located in Shipaidou 石牌兜. Middle: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13, the three neighborhoods of Weiyang take incense burners to each household to practice the Dao 行道, but do this separately. On 1/14, a procession is held within the entire village and the crossroads into the community are sealed 封道. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The three jia each select a fushou 福首 headman to organize these events together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongkuigong 钟馗公 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by Shipaidou, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by Weicuojia 尾厝甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huashan xishê 华山西社. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by Banshanjia 半山甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. This evens is organized by Banshanjia 半山甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the Chen 陈 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Lufu daren 鲁府大人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the Lai 赖 and the Zhou 周 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huashanshê 华山社 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by Weicuo 尾厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A118 Sanshan sanshê (Sanshan three shê ritual alliance) 三山三社 The three shê alliance of Sanshan is located in the foothills of the Zixiao Mountains 紫霄山, at the base of three small hills near the northern edge of the northern irrigated plain. Their water for irrigation comes primarily from the Linquan Weir 林泉陂 and the Mingcuokeng trench 明厝坑圳. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu (police/defense unit) 东张山后 铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing the three villages of Jingtou 井头, Xiake 下柯, and Shanhou 山后 were settled. The current population of these villages is over 2300 people, and they are managed by the Sanshan Administrative Village 三山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into three shê. Tongji yuewanggong 通济越王宫 temple, located in Xiake 下柯 village, is the main temple of the three shê village alliance. The main god is Yuewang Sanshan three shê ritual alliance dadi 越王大帝. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the three shê take turns going on procession to the temple to request incense fire. On lunar 1/14 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated, and the gods of the temple are carried in a procession to each of the three villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three villages of Sanshan were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V541 Jingtou 井头 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Xu 许 and forty to fifty Lin 林 households. It is said that the Lin emigrated from Chizhu 赤柱 of Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Fushoushê 福寿社 was rebuilt in Guangxu 8 (1882). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Dabentang 大本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 165 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 to request incense fire 香火, and take the incense burners to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three shê alliance. At night, the lanterns are paraded, palm sedan chair are carried around and fire walking ceremonies are held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V542 Xiake 下柯 1. Village settlement The entire village has 492 people. 2. Surname groups The Ke 柯 makes up 70–80% of the total population. Other surnames include six Chen 陈 households, one Wang 王 household, and more than ten Wu 吴 households. It is said that the Ke came from Kezhu 柯朱 in Ling chuan 灵川 and from Liuqiao 柳桥 in Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 was built in the Guangxu 25 (1899) and was renovated in 1989. Middle altar: Yuewang dadi 越王大帝. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lugong dianshuai 鲁公殿帅. 2) Fuxingmiao 福兴庙, Fuyoushê 福佑社 was rebuilt in 1986 and again in 2004. Upper altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣 侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Ganyingtang 感应堂 was renovated in 1988. On the upper altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Middle altar: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Left altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 request incense fire 香火, and the incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/1–3: The birthday celebration of Yuewang dadi 越王大帝 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the three-fold shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8./25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V543 Shanhou 山后 1. Village settlement Shanhou village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李, the Zhang 张 and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples 1) Lingyin zushê 灵隐祖社 was built in the Qianlong period and was rebult in 1921, 1985 and in 2000. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Wenxinmiao 文新庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Baishenmiao 百神庙: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 4) Feihudian 飞虎殿: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Miaodetang 妙德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records 235 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 2/12–13 villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 to request incense fire 香火, and then they carry the incense burners to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/1–3: The birthday celebration of Yuewang dadi 越王大帝 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the three-fold shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of all the gods of Baifumiao 百福庙 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A119 Wanyang sishê (Wanyang four shê ritual alliance) 碗洋四社 The four-shê ritual alliance of Wanyang is located in the foothills of the Zixiao mountains 紫宵山. Water for irrigation is primarily drawn from the Guantang 官塘 Reservoir and the Chengtang 澄塘 reservoir. This area was part of the Wanyao Houhuangpu (police/defense unit) 碗窑后黄铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing, the village of Wanyao 碗窑 was settled. Currently, the area includes the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Houyang 后洋, Gelong 隔垄 and Tiancuo 田厝. These villages are managed byWanyang four ritual alliance the Wanyang Administrative Village 碗洋行政村. The temple ritual order is divided on the basis of shê-altar temples into four shê. The Guanshengmiao 关圣庙 temple, located in Xiyang 西洋 village, is the main temple for the four-shê ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Each year on lunar 2/2—the toufu (first day of good fortune)—the god is taken on a tour of inspection around each shê. The three main surnames of the village are the Huang 黄, the Shi 施, and the Chen 陈. There are also the Weng 翁 and Lin 林 minor surname groups. It is said that the first person to move to the village was one Huang Wuqing 黄斌卿 during the Yuan. The Shi 施 emigrated from Jinjiang 晋江 to Donghu 洞湖 during the mid-Ming, and then migrated to the village of Wanyang from Donghu 洞湖. The village was called Tiantoucuo 田头厝 at that time. The Shi 施 lineage is divided into two major branches, and the first branch has sub-divided into four branches while the second branch currently is subdivided into five branches. The Shi 施 have a total population of 300 people. The second branch has the most people, with approximately 200 people. The second branch of the Shi has an ancestral hall, but the lineage genealogy has been destroyed. The ancestral tomb was originally in Sanshan 三山, but has already been destroyed. The Huang, making up approximately 400 people, live mainly in Houyang 后洋. The Huang moved here from Donghuang 东黄 in Chengzhu village 澄渚村. They are divided into four branches, of which the third branch has the most people, making up approximately 30% of the total population of the Huang. There originally was an Huang 黄 ancestral hall. The Chen 陈 have approximately 250 people who are divided into six lineage branches, of which three branches are in Xiyang 西洋 while the other three branches are in Gelong 隔垄. The Chen had an ancestral hall, but it has been transformed into a warehouse for cardboard boxes. In the feuding alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê alliance of Wanyang were all members of the red banner alliance. 
V544 Xiyang 西洋 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shi 施, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Wanyangjing Guanshengmiao 碗洋境关圣庙 was built in Ming Chongzhen 3 (1630). Main god: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Secondary gods: Zhou Cang 周仓, Guan Ping 关平, Ma jiangjun 马将军 (Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军), Zhang Bao 张苞, Zhang Lei 张累, Guan Xing 关兴, Wang Yong 王用. The rear hall has a 2) Wenchangge 文昌阁: Main god: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. This temple is one of the five great temples of Putian, and it preserves ten pieces (40 cm × 10 cm) of a Ming dynasty divinatory poetry board 签支板 and numerous carved couplets. It is said that Huang Kangqin 黄康钦, the Commander 总兵 of Zhoushan 舟山 of Zhejiang province 浙江 during the Ming Dynasty, was from Wanyang 碗洋. During his fight against Japanese pirates 倭寇, Emperor Guan (Guandi) 关帝 manifested 显灵 to help him win. Thus he made bronze statues of Guan Yu 关羽, Guan Ping 关平, and Zhou Cang 周仓, and shipped them back to Putian. During the process, a huge tide hit them and the statues of Guan Ping and Zhou Cang sank, leaving only Guan Yu’s statue. Local commander Huang 黄总兵 was later killed, and the blood that came out of him was blue. He was vindicated afterwards and granted the title of Guogong 国公 (the place was originally called Guogongpo 国公坡). 2) Zongkongci 宗孔祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, on the day of Toufu 头福, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held in the four village alliance. Lanterns are taken on a procession around the four village alliance. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These rituals are organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V545 Houyang 后洋 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Longjin shê 龙津社 is co-owned by Houyang 后洋, Xiyang 西洋, and Donghuang 东黄. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–16, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V546 Gelong 隔垄 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shi 施 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Fulong dongshê 浮龙东社 was built during the earlyQing Dynasty (others also say that it was built during the Ming Dynasty). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village Opera is performed, and Dao   ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V547 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanshê 龙山社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingshansi 青山寺: Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Qinglonggong 青龙宫 is dedicated to Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Qingfudian 清福殿: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Baidaren 白大人 and Xietian dadi协天上帝. 5) Jinshangfu 金沙府 is dedicated to Wangdaren 王大人. 6) Qinglinggong 青灵宫: Main god: Lubu dashen. Secondary gods are Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Dao- ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with opera. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held with opera. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with opera for four days. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held with opera for four days. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. On a day determined by divination in the lunar 11th month, the birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held. On all these occasions, Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. Some of these rituals are organized by the village as a whole, while others are orangized by the entire four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A120 (
V548 Houhuang ershê (Houhuang two shê ritual alliance) 后黄二社 Houhuang 后黄) 1. Village settlement Houhuang is located in between the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation system太平陂. This area was part of the Wanyao Houhuangpu (police/defense unit) 碗窑 后黄铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. The village was settled in the Ming. The entire village has approximately 1000 people. Houhuang an independent natural village, as well as being managed by an Administrative Village of the same name. The main source of income used to be agriculture and weaving in the past, but now it’s mostly fruit trees (dragon eyes, loquat). The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of settlements and lineages into two shê altars. The village also has approximately twenty households of Christian believers. Houhuang two shê ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Houhuang was part of the red banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The surnames of the village includes the Xu 许, Huang 黄, Wu 吴, and Lin 林, of which the Xu and the Huang makes up more than 90% of the total population, while there are only a few households of the Wu and the Lin. The Xu makes up around 60% of the population. They are divided into four branches: Xincuoli 新厝里, Xiacuoli 下厝里, Gebili 隔壁里, and Cuozi 厝仔, of which Xincuoli has the greatest number of people, although the precise number is unclear. There is an ancestral hall that is used during the Yuanxiao festivals 元宵. The ancestral tombs are in Xipo 西坡. The Huang, making up close to 40% of the total population, emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞 (Huangxiang in Hanjiang), and are part of the Jiangxia Liufang 江夏流芳 line. There is an ancestral hall. Their genealogy is kept in Huangxia 黄霞 near Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Houhuangjing Taoyuanshê 后黄境桃源社 includes the Taoyuan dongshê 桃源东社 and the Taoyuan xishê 桃源西社. This temple was originally built in the early Ming dynasty and was rebuilt in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days starting on 9/16. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dadi 中天大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Meihua ziniang 梅花子娘, Heihu xuanwang 黑虎宣王 and Taoli jiangjun 桃李将军. 2) Longhua shuyuan 龙华书院 was built in the Qing, and was rebuilt in the 1980s. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 143 initiates. 3) Fengshangong 凤山宫 was recently rebuilt. Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Zhende’an 贞德庵 was recently rebuilt. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝, Shan tongzi 善童子, Xianzhu longzhou 献珠龙舟. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–12 Taoyuan dongshê 桃源东社 invites Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. At night, lanterns are paraded and palm sedan chair are carried around. This is organized by the Huang 黄, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–15, Taoyuan xishê 桃源西社 invites Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 to go on procession within its territory. At night, lanterns are paraded and palm sedan chair are carried around. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Xu 许, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. 
A121 (
V549 Loutou sishê (Loutou four shê ritual alliance) 漏头四社 Loutou 漏头) 1. Village settlement The village of Loutou is located within the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂. This area was part of the Loutoupu 漏头铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli 兴教里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Loutou was already settled. In the Qing the village of Fangzhuang 方庄 divided off. There are currently more than 2200 people living in the village. The village is managed by the Loutou Administrative Village 漏头 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to lineage groupings into four she-altars: Shoushê 首社 belongs to the Huang 黄; Zhongshê 中社 belongs to the Liang 梁, the Xu 许 and the Wu 吴; Xishê 西社 belongs to the Ke 柯, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾 and the Liu 刘; Dongshê 东社 belongs to the Wang 王. Formerly, Fangzhuang 方庄 belonged to Loutou sishê 漏头 四社. Nowadays this village no longer participates in the common Yuanxiao procession of Loutou 漏头. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the village of Loutou was part of the white banner alliance. The main livelihoods are agriculture but many female workers work in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wang 王 and the Liang 梁. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Li 李. The Wang 王 came from Sanshan 三山 (Fuzhou) from Fenghuoshan 峰火山 near Fangzhuang 方庄 of Xizhuang village 西庄村. There is a Wang ancestral hall 王氏宗祠 in Loutou village. The Liang 梁 came from Liangcuo 梁厝 of Hushi 笏石 during the Qianlong period. Their ancestor is known as De Xuan Gong (Master De Xuan) 德玄公. The Liang are divided into three lineage branches: Wanbao 万宝, Wanjin 万金, and Wanzhu 万珠. They are now in their ninth generation in the village. The Ke 柯 came from Xiake Loutou four shê ritual alliance village 下柯 of the Sanshan 三山 (Fuzhou) region. The Li 李 came from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Right altar: Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 2) Chongfutang 崇福堂: This temple was renovated in 1987. Middle hall: Middle altar: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left hall: Wenchang dijun 文昌 帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. Right hall: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Rear hall: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Denglongshê 登龙社 was originally built in Ming Hongwu 16 (1383) (according to the Xu Lineage Genealogy 许氏族谱). This temple is co-owned by the Shoushê 首社, the Zhongshê 中社 and the Xishê 西社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the four divine generals 四神将 (the Zhu 朱, Tao 桃, Jin 金, and Li 李). 4) Denglong dongshê 登龙东社 was renovated in 1985. Middle altar middle niche 中龛: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left niche 左龛: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯. Right niche 右龛: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Left altar: Dutong dawang 都统大王, Duguan pusa 都管菩萨. Right altar: Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Heihu shenjiang 黑虎神将, Huban dashen 虎班大神. 5) Longfenggong 龙凤宫 was originally built in Guangxu 26 (1900) and is dedicated to the following gods: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Fuling zushi 法灵祖师, Liu daren 刘大人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天 大帝, Kefu zhenren 柯府真人, Lufu jungong 鲁府军公. 6) Longlingong 龙麟宫 was built in 1948. Middle altar: Taishang laojun 太上老君. Left altar: Shuaigong shenghou 帅公圣侯, Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 7) Yuanben shuyuan 元本书院: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Lanpenpudu 兰盆 rituals are held here on 11/ 6. 8) Yunlinsi 云林寺: Middle: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛; Left: Guanyin dashi 观 音大士; Right: Damo zushi 达摩祖师. 9) Shengfutang 升福堂: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10) Jingfugong 景福宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Li daye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhongshê 中社 and Dongshê 东社 go on a procession with the gods to each household to xingdao practice the Dao 行道. On 1/14 the Shoushê 首社 and Xishê 西社 go on a procession with the gods to each household to xingdao practice the Dao 行道. On 1/15 Dutong daren 都统大人, Duguan pusa 都管菩萨 and Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 go on a procession within the village. The god’s chairs are carried through fire 踏火 and three Daoist ritual masters 道士 are invited to conduct the Jiao ritual. On 2/2 a common Yuanxiao 元宵 is held and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on procession within the village. Lanterns are taken on procession around the ritual territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/ 8: Toutiaoxi 头条戏 is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 2/2: The toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rites are celebrated with two days of opera, with funds raised on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by Dongshê 东社. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village as a whole. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan Zhao yuanshuai 玄坛赵元帅. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 10/6: The first celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by Shoushê 首社. 10/7: The second celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by the Zhongshê 中社. 10/8: The third celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by the Xishê 西社. 10/15: The fourth celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫 of Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by Dongshê 东社. Contributions for all the above events are collected on a per capita basis within the part of the village involved. 
V550 Fangzhuang 方庄 1) Village settlement people. The current population of Fangzhuang is about 200 2) Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. 3) Village temples 1) Longyuanshê 龙元社, Longyuangong 龙元宫: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Shuishen 水神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lifu daren 李府大人, Sandu yuanshuai 三都元帅 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Fulinggong 绂麟宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Liushenghou 刘圣侯 and Jinshenghou 金圣侯. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burner of the she-altar is taken on procession to every household within the village to xingdao practice the Dao. Birthday celebration of the gods 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A122 Wutang qijing (Wutang sevenfold ritual alliance) 梧塘七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Wutang is located along the upper channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Wutangpu 梧塘铺 (police/defense unit) and the Fenglin Linwaipu 林外铺 of Xingjiaoli 兴教里 (sub-canton). In the Ming, the villages of Shangwutang 上吴塘村 and Fengling 枫岭村 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Xiatou 下头, Taibeizhuang 太白庄, Qianzhuang 前庄, Gucen 古岑, and Linwai 林外 divided off. These villages are now managed by four Administrative Villages, namely Fenglin 枫林, Xialou 霞楼, Xizhuang 西庄 and Dongfu 东福行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to village into the seven independent ritual units of Linwai 林外, Meiling 梅岭, Dongpai 东牌, Fuxingshê 福兴社, Taibaizhuang 太白庄, Xizhuang 西庄 (Qianzhuang 前庄) and Xialou 下楼 (Xiatou 下头). Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社 temple, located in Fengling 枫岭 village, is the ancestral she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance, while Chengyingdian 诚应殿 of Taibaizhuang 太白庄 is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance goes on procession to these temples to invite the gods back to their village. Each year on lunar 1/17 the main god of the Chengyingdian 诚应殿, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, is carried in a procession around all the villages in the sevenfold ritual alliance. Wutang sevenfold ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the village of Xialou 霞楼 was part of the white banner alliance, while the other villages were part of the red banner alliance. However, the village of Xizhuang 西庄 was inclined towards the black banner alliance. 
V551 Linwai 林外 1. Village settlement Linwai was originally called Linwaishê 林外社. Linwai village is a part of the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. The three jiao (corners, i.e., neighborhoods) of Linwai 林外三角 are Pengcuo 彭厝, Laicuo 赖厝, and Xiacuohuang 下厝黄. There are close to 1700 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Su and the Chen. The Su 苏 came from Wugong 武功 and the Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. Other surnames are the Tu 涂, Zhou 周, Li 李, and the Zhang 张 from Guitang 桂塘. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. Tombs are swept on Qingming 清明 festival, but there is no common worshipping. In Pengcuo 彭厝, the main surname groups are the Yao 姚, Zheng 郑, and the Peng 彭. In Laicuo 赖厝, the main surname group is the Lai 赖. In Xiacuohuang 下厝黄, the main surname group is the Huang 黄, which has two branches: one came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and one from the mountains, the Huang of Shanli 山里黄. 3. Village temples 1) Linwaijing Xianglong fushê 林外境香龙福社: Originally built on Mount Gui 龟山 in 1503, it was relocated here in 1580. An stele from Qing Daoguang 15 (1835) has been preserved. The main gods worshipped are Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. 2) Fuchenggong 福成宫 is also known as Xiacuo Wuwanggong 下厝五 王宫. The main gods worshipped are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Other gods include Langong dashen 兰公大神, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Xie daren 谢大人, Huang daren 黄大人 and Li daren 李大人. 3) Chongbentang 重本堂 in Laicuo 赖厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 325 initiates. 4) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 in Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Pengcuo 彭厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/12 Laicuo 赖厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/13 Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/17 A common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is offered three days of opera. 2/25: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is offered two days of opera 4/13: Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 are offered three days of opera 7/6: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 are offered two days of opera. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. Contributions for the opera and Daoist rituals for these occasions are collected from each dui 队 (production brigade) on a per capita basis. 
V552 Meiling 梅岭 1. Village settlement Meiling is also know as Fengli 枫林 and belongs to the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. Meiling is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Changjijia 长基甲 has 738 people, Linganjia 林干甲 has 338 people, Luoganjia 罗干甲 has 200 people, and Wuzhongjia 吾中甲 has 585 people, for a total of 1921 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. Other surnames include the Luo 罗 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Meiling Wuzhong Fenglingjing Xiangyingshê 梅岭 吾中凤岭境香应社 used to be the main temple of Linwai 林外总社. Then Longxishê 龙溪社 branched out from this temple and gradually gained popularity and recognition that surpassed that of Xiangyingshê 香应社. Thus, it replaced Xiangyingshê 香应社 and became known as Longxi zushê (Dragon stream founding altar of the soil and the harvest) 龙溪祖社. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Wanggong ye 王公爷 and Huoshen ye 火神爷. 2) Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社 is in the Fengling shengjing 凤岭胜境. The temple was expanded during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620). This temple is the zushê (ancestral altar) 祖社 of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Aotang 鳌塘七境. (Chengyingdian 诚应殿 of Taibaizhuang 太白庄 of Wutang 梧 塘 is the main temple of that sevenfold ritual alliance. Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝 goes on procession within that sevenfold ritual alliance). The main gods worshipped in the Longxi zushê are Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普 济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 3) Shihuici 世惠祠 is dedicated to the five people who constructed and repaired the 太平陂 Taiping Weir and its irrigation canals—the Wuwei zunshen 五位尊神 who were all judged to have performed major deeds of merits. They are He Yu 何玉, Liu E 刘谔, Cai Xiang 蔡襄, Zeng Yonghu 曾用虎, and Zhang Nie 章蘖. Chenfu daren 陈府大人is also worshipped. This shrine was originally built in Song Shaoxing 2 (1132). The Fengshanci 凤山祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and to Xiaoxing zushi 孝行祖师. 3) Jiaruimiao 嘉瑞庙: This temple was built in Jiajing 35 (1556), and is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Meiling Cigongge 梅岭慈公阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–16, each jia invites in rotation Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 to go on procession. A spirit medium accompanies the procession. On 1/17, a common Yuanxiao celebration of sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration for Xiaoxing zushi 孝行祖师 is held, with two days of opera. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with three days of opera. This organization of this events rotates annually from the Xingyinshê to the Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社. 4/26: The celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held, with two days of opera. 9/3: The celebration for Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官 is held, with two to three days of opera. 10/15: The Lanpen pudu 兰盆 ritual is held. Nuns from the Cigongge 慈公阁 perform the rites. The expenses for opera performances and Daoist rituals for the birthday celebrations of gods above are apportioned to every dui 队 (production brigade) and raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Every year, each jia nominates one Fushou 福首 on the basis of age to run the village ritual activities. 
V553 Xizhuang 西庄 1. Village settlement Xizhuang village is a part of the Xizhuang Administrative Village. 西庄行政村 The entire village currently has more than 2200 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The Chen are divided into at least two groups, the Da Chen and the Xiao Chen (greater and lesser Chen). Other surname groups include the Lu 卢, the Zhu 朱, the Lin 林, the Fang 方, the Zheng 郑, the Qiu 邱, and the Liu 刘. The Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiaoli Aotangjing Longxingshê 兴教里鳌塘境 隆兴社: Originally built during the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1736), the temple was renovated in 1985. A stele from Xianfeng 10 (1860) is preserved in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Gong daren 龚大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhongkui shengjun 钟馗圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Dutong yuanshuai 都统元帅 and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 2) Xingxianmiao 兴贤庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Wanlingong 万麟宫 was originally built during the Qing Qianlong period. The main gods worshipped are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Other gods include Jin daren 金大人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4) Tianhougong 天后宫: Originally built in 1926, the temple was renovated in 1991. Main gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 5) Taipingmiao 太平庙: Main gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Other gods: Huangcang 黄仓, Baicang 白仓. 6) Dunbentang 敦本堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. Right: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Lu 卢 paoxiang 跑香 (run with the incense), and invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 the Greater Chen 大陈 also paoxiang 跑香 (run with the incense), and invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao. On 1/13, the Lesser Chen 小陈 together with the Lin 林, the Zhu 朱, the Zheng 郑, and the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/14, the Great Chen 大陈 qifu (pray for blessings) 祈福 by inviting Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 to go on a tour of inspection around the boundaries of their territory in the village 绕境巡游. On 1/15 the Lesser Chen 小陈 together with the Lin 林, the Zhu 朱, the Zheng 郑, and the Fang 方 do the same set of rites and processions within their own territory. On 1/16, the Lu 卢 pray for blessings, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 are again taken on a procession around their territory. On 1/17, the village attends the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration for Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/13: The celebration for Zhuzhu mingwang and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/23: The celebration for Gong daren 龚大人. 9/9: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every year, opera is performed approximately seven times, each time lasting for two to three days. Every time, the expenses for opera performances are raised on a per capita basis. 
V554 Taibaizhuang 太白庄 1. Village settlement Taibaizhuang village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village 东福行政村. The settlement of the Xingjiaoli (sub-canton), Aotangjing, Taibaizhuang village 兴教里鳌塘境太白庄 began during the Qing Dynasty. There are currently more than 853 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The Xu 许 make up 50%, and the Yang 杨 30% of the village population. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, the Cai 蔡 with seven or eight households, the Hong 洪 with two households, the Wu 吴 and the Zhu 朱 with one household each. The Xu 许 came from Shigu 石鼓 in Yongchun county 永春县. Their ancestor’s ancestral house 祖栋 and ancestral tombs 祖墓 are in Qiulu 萩芦. The Yang 杨氏 also came from Yongchun 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiaoli aotangjing chengyingdian 兴教里鳌塘境 诚应殿: was originally built in Qianlong 18 (1753), and was rebuilt in 1984. A stele from the Xianfeng 1 (1851) is preserved in the temple. This temple is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Xizhuang 西庄, including the villages of Dongpai 东牌, Fuxingshê 福兴社, Xialou 霞楼, Taibaizhuang 太白庄, Linwai 林外, and Fengling 枫岭. The main god of the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include the four marshalls 四大元帅: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. Left altar: Jialan dadi 伽蓝大帝. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 2) Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社: Originally built in Xianfeng 2 (1852), this temple was renovated in 1987. The main gods worshipped are: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元 帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 3) Dunbentang 敦本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. His celebration is held on 7/15. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records sixty-five initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, the villagers invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 there are lantern processions that form circles of linked lanterns quandeng 圈灯, and paoxiang 跑香 running with incense, and tahuo 踏火 firewalking rituals. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct the Jiao ritual. The following gods go on procession and take a tour of inspection of the village boundaries (in six palm sedan chair 棕桥: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王). On 1/17 an overall procession is held for the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the Chengyingdian 诚应殿. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 (funds raised by the entire sevenfold ritual alliance). Opera is performed for two days. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration for Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration for Tudigong’s 土地公 birthday. Opera is performed for three days. Funds for opera and Daoist rituals are raised on a per capita basis within the village, and supplemented by voluntary donations from the sevenfold ritual alliance and from Overseas Chinese. 
V555 Fuxingshê 福兴社 1. Village settlement Fuxingshê village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village 东福行政村. There are currently more than 593 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The Peng 彭 are the main surname group, making up 70–80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Li 李 with four households, the Cai 蔡 with six households, the Huang 黄 with four households, the Hu 胡 with six households, the Zhang 张 with two households, and the Xu 徐 with one household. 3. Village temples The Fuxingshê 福兴社 was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽 尊王, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统 are taken on procession around the village. On 1/15, there is a paoxiang (running the incense) 跑香 ritual, and lanterns are lit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The celebration for Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/22: The celebration for Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 9/9: The celebration for Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days and Daoist rituals are conducted. Funding is raised on a per capita basis within the village. 5. Ritual groups A single Fushou 福首 is selected each year to run the major rituals of the year. 
V556 Dongpai 东牌 1. Village settlement Dongpai village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village东福行政村. There are approximately 2000 people living in Dongpai village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers working in the shoe manufacturing industry and other manufacturing industries. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up 50%, and the Lin 林 (40%) of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. The Wu came from Shuinan 水南 of Huangshi 黄石. The Lin came from Wushi 乌石 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Aotangjing Xingxiaoli Zhongwu Wanshoushê 鳌塘 境兴孝里忠吴万寿社. This temple was renovated in Guangxu 19 (1893) and again in 1986. The temple is divided into the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 which belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Wanshoushê 万寿社 which belongs to the Lin 林. They worship separate sets of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped in the Zhongwushê include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Other gods in the Wanshoushê include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gongfu daren 龚府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 19 (1893) entitled 重修忠吴万寿祖社序 (Preface to the restoration of the Zhongwu Wanshou founding shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:348, No. 312). 2) Dongqinggong 东青宫, Zhuyundian 竹云殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母and to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Qiaotou Donglaidian 桥头东来殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and to Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Puyintang 普音堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Wu 吴 invite many of the gods of the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 to go on a procession: The following gods are placed in six palm sedan chairs 棕轿: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The Lin invite four gods from the Wanshoushê 万寿社 to ride in large wooden sedan chairs in a procession. These are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Gongfu daren 龚府大人. Six gods are placed in smaller palm sedan chairs. They are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gong daren 龚大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On 1/14, the Lin 林 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/15, the Wu 吴 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanshoushê 万寿社 are celebrated by the Lin 林. 5/13: The birthday of Sima shengwan 司马圣王 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 5/27: The birthday of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Zhongwushê 万寿社 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 8/13: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai’s 田公元帅 is celebrated by the Lin 林. Due to the restrictions on the location of the opera performance, opera performances usually take place during the sixth lunar month, using the playground in the local elementary school. Opera is performed for five to six days. The expenses are collected on a per capita basis, from within the relevant lineage. Xialou 霞楼 1. Village settlement Xialou village was originally called Xialou 下楼 or Xiatou 下头\\, and belongs to the Xialou Administrative Village 霞楼行政 村. Xialou village is divided into four jiaoluo (neighborhoods) 角: These are called the first branch 长房, second branch 二房, third branch 三房, and the mixed branch 杂房. There are 2100 people living in the village. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. The Lin moved here in Kangxi 18 (1679). The first, second and third branches of the village are all of the Lin surname group. The mixed branch is made up of the Liu 刘, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Huang 黄, Xu 徐, Zhu 朱, He 何, and Dai 戴. The mixed branch (zafang) 杂房 can be subdivided into Shangza 上杂 and Xiaza 下杂. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral hall. Some villagers worship ancestors on the Qingming 清明 festival, others on the Winter Solstice 冬至. Tombs are swept separately. 3. Village temples 1) Anminshê 安民社 is in Aotangjing 鳌塘境. It was built in Qing Qianlong 16 (1751). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2) Xinfugong 新福宫 belongs to the Toucuocheng Third Branch 头厝埕三房 of the Lin 林 lineage. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Fulai dian 福来殿 belongs to the second branch 二房 of the Lin. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 4) Taihemiao 太和庙 was originally built during the late Tang Dynasty, then moved to the present location. It is said that Taihemiao existed before the Taiping Weir and the irrigation system “未有太平陂, 先有太和庙”. The temple now belongs to the Lin 林 of the first branch长房. The temple is often referred to as the East temple (Donggong 东宫). The main gods worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qiu taibao 邱太保, Chen taibao 陈太保, Zheng taibao 郑太保, and Liu taibao 刘太保. The stone inscription composed in Ming Longqing 6 (1572) by Guo Yingpin 郭应聘 and entitled 修太和庙记 (Record of the repairs to the Temple of Supreme Harmony), is about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:175, No. 153). 5) Fuansi 福安寺 is dedicated to Rulai fo 如来佛, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽兰. 6) Fuantang 福安堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Ruyitang 如意堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Luoyuanci 罗源祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Yanyuandong 延源洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Daoyuandong 道源洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, the first branch 长房 of the Lin 林 lineage take xingdao Sima shengwang on procession to carry out the Dao in each of their households 行道 and then carry the god back to the temple. On 1/13–15, the second and third branches 二房三房 of the Lin 林carry Zhongyuan dashen 中元大圣 to carry out the Dao in each of their households 行道 and then carry the god back to the temple. On 1/16, all of the gods of the Anminshê 安民社, with the exception of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, are taken on a procession through the entire village. On this day also, the middle and lower sections of the “lower mixed branch” 下杂杂房中 race the incense 跑香 (paoxiang), but do not xingdao 行道 (visit each household). The upper mixed branch does neither activity. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. This is hosted by Fulaidian 福来殿. The expenses for opera performances is paid for by the second branch, by voluntary donations, and by funds raised in the second branch on a per capita basis. Opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This is hosted by Xinfugong 新福宫. The expenses for the opera performances is paid for by the third branch and by the Upper mixed branch 上杂, by voluntary donations and by funds raised on a per capita basis. Opera is perfumed for two to three days. 4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 Opera is performed for two to three days. This is hosted by the shê (altar) 社 itself, and funded by the entire village, on a per capita basis. 4/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongyuan dasheng 中元大圣. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by the village as a whole, on a per capita basis. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. This celebration is hosted by Taihemiao 太和庙 of Dongyang 东阳. The expense for the opera performances are paid for by the first branch 长房 and by the upper mixed branch 上杂. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. Opera is performed two days. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This celebration is hosted by Dongyangmiao 东阳庙. The expenses for opera are paid for by the second branch and the upper mixed branch 上杂. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. Opera is performed for two days. 
A123 (
V558 Wuzi sanshê (Wuzi three shê ritual alliance) 梧梓三社 Wuzi 梧梓) 1. Village settlement Wuzi village is located along the upper channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Wuzipu 梧梓铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli 兴教里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Wuzi was already settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shangwuzi 上梧梓, Xiawuzi 下梧梓, Lücuo 芦厝 and Kengwei 坑尾 divided off. There are over 1000 people living in Wuzi village nowadays, and the village is managed by the Wuzi Administrative Village 梧梓 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into three shê altars by jiaoluo (neighborhoods) 角落. These are the Zushê 祖社, Shangshê 上社, and Xiashê 下社. The main livelihood is agriculture and some commerce 2. Surname groups There are quite a few surname groups. The main surname group is the Li. The Li are the offspring of Li Zhigan 李制干. There is no ancestral hall. The Li are of the same ancestry as the Li of Yangwei 洋尾李. On Qingming 清明, the Li go to Yangwei 洋尾 to worship their ancestors 祭祖. The ancestral tombs are still preserved, so there are common rites of ancestral worship at the gravesites. 3. Village temples 1) Wuzijing Chongxingshê 梧梓境重兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Liu Jin shenghou 柳金圣侯, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Chongxingshê had originally branched off two other shê altars known as the Shangshê (upper altar) 上社 and Xiashê (lower altar) 下社. These were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. Currently, the gods of both altars are gathered back in their ancestral altar 祖社 as the branch temples have not yet been refurbished. 2) Canglongtan 苍龙坛 in Wuzijing 梧梓境 contains the Chongxingshê 重兴社. The main god worshipped in the Canglongtan 苍龙坛 is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–1/15 the three shê ritual organizations take turns inviting the incense burners of their temples to xingdao Wuzi three shê ritual alliance 行道 at each household. On 1/16 the entire village takes part in paoxiang 跑香 “racing the incense”. All the gods go on a procession around the entire village. Birthday celebration of the gods A poster in the Canglongtan 苍龙坛 temple provides this list of god’s birthdays and other ritual occasions throughout the year. Most are celebrated with two to three days of opera, and Daoist rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 1/3: welcoming of the gods 接神 2/1: is the birthday of Shêgong 社公 2/2: opening of the year Touya 头芽 2/10: is the birthday of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 2/25: is the birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is the birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 3/3: 3/9: is the birthday of Jin shenghou 金圣侯 4/9: is the birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 5/5: is the birthday of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 5/13: is the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 5/16: is the birthday of Wang tianjun 王天君 8/1: is the birthday of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 8/20: is the birthday of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 9/23: is the birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 10/7: is the birthday of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 10/11: is the birthday of Liu Jinhou 柳金侯 12/16th: closing of the year banquet 尾牙 12/23rd: Luotian dasheng 罗天大圣 12/23: the farewell of the gods 送神 
A124 Songban shisanjia (Songban thirteen jia ritual alliance) 松阪十三甲 The thirteen jia alliance of Songban is located along the Upper Channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Sizhou Songbanpu 泗洲松阪铺 (police/defense unit) of Xingjiaoli 兴教里 (sub-canton). In the Ming, the villages of Sizhou 泗洲 and Putou 埔头 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Songban 松阪, Dingcuowei 顶厝尾, Lingqian 岭前 and Qianan 前庵 divided off. In the late Qing and early Republican period, the villages of Daopu 道埔, Siying 泗营, Xiaojia 肖甲, Zhixiang 直巷, Gangtou 巷头, Lingqian 岭前, Baiyuan 白园, Tianluokeng 田螺坑, Butou 埔墩, and Xizheng 西郑 separated off. There are over 3000 people living in the villages of the alliance. Currently these villages are managed by three Administrative Village committees, namely Songdong 松东, Songxi 松西, and Dongpo 东坡行政村. The temple ritual system is divided Songban thirteen jia ritual alliance according to lineage and settlement into thirteen ritual associations (jia 甲). The main livelihoods are agriculture, fruit tree cultivation, off-farm commerce, and working in joint-venture enterprises. The Fushougong 福寿宫 temple, located in Xiaojia 肖甲 village, is the main temple of the thirteen jia alliance. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Later, the Fushougong 福寿宫 branched off into the Fushoumiao 福寿庙 and the Fushoutan 福寿坛. Each year on lunar 1/17 a common Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the thirteen jia alliance, and the gods of the Fushougong temple are carried in a procession through each of the ritual associations of the alliance. There are many surname groups living in the area. The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, the Dai 戴, the Zheng 郑, the Ke 柯, the Liu 刘, the Deng 邓, the Yu 俞, and the Qiu 邱. The main surname group in Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 is the Chen 陈. In Daopu 道埔 and Zhixiang 直巷 the Liu 刘 are the main surname group. Over 1000 members of the Xiao 肖 and Ke 柯 surname groups live in Xiaojia 肖甲. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Putou 埔头, Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 and Xizheng 西郑 were members of the red banner alliance, while Siying village 泗营 was part of the white banner alliance 白旗, and all the other villages were part of the black banner alliance. 
V559 Daopu 道埔 1. Village settlement Daopu village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松溪行政村. There are approximately 1000 people living in Putou village. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are very few other sources of income. The economy is rather weak. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Fushougong 福寿宫 contains the Yongshanshê 永善社, and is located in Zhixiang 直巷. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ruigou shenghou 瑞沟圣侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng zhongjun 彭中军, Zhuojiao zhongjun 卓角中军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Yunshansi 云山寺: The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Jialan 伽兰 and Weituo 韦驮. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 villagers participate in the procession of the thirteen-fold village alliance. On 2/1 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions operas are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V560 Sizhou 泗洲 1. Village settlement Sizhou village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松溪行政村. Sizhou has a population of 535 people. 2. Surname groups There are surnames of the Wu 吴, the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, the Yu 俞, the Xu 许, the Zhuang 庄 and the Xu 徐. The Wu 徐 comes from Zhenqian 镇前. 3. Village temples 1) (Sizhou) Qilingong (泗洲) 麒麟宫 contains the Mingshi ershê 明石二社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Dabentang 达本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records twenty-three initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, gods of Qilingong 麒麟宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village, and opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. On 1/17, attending the procession of Shisanjia 十三甲. On 2/2 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by Sizhou 泗洲 and Ziying 泗营 (called Siyang 泗洋) on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by Sizhou 泗洲 and Ziying 泗营 (called Siyang 泗洋) on a per capita basis. 
V561 Siying 泗营 1. Village settlement Siying village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松西行政村. Siying has a population about 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are Liu 刘 and Ke 柯. 3. Village temples Fushoudian 绂寿殿: The main gods is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 attend the procession of Sizhou Qilingong 泗洲麒麟宫. On 1/17, the Liu 刘 attends the Yuanxiao procession of Songdong Fushougong 松东福寿宫. On 2/2 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized. Opera is organized by the Ke 柯 and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V562 Xiaojia 肖甲 1. Village settlement Xiaojia village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. The village population is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The Xiao 肖 is the biggest surname group which has 1000 people. It is divided into four branches: Houmenxiang 后门巷, Zafang 杂房, Xiajingxiang 下井巷, and Lingdouxiang 岭兜巷. Their origins are unknown. There is common worshipping on Winter Solstice. The lineage genealogy and the ancestral hall have all been destroyed. The Ke 柯 has over 300 people and has the same origin as the Ke 柯 in Siying 泗营. 3. Village temples 1) Songbanjing fushoutan 松坂境福寿坛, Yongshanshê 永善社(also known as the Xiaojia shanggong 肖甲上宫 or the Dinggong 顶宫) belongs to the Xiao 肖 surname group. This temple branched from main temple, the Yongxingtang 永兴堂. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Fuxingtan 福兴坛 contains the Yongxingtang 永兴堂 altar and belongs to the Ke 柯. The main god is Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Secondary gods include Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Wanggong yuanshuai 王公元帅, Zhu daye 朱大爷 and Deng erye 邓大爷. 3) Buyundong 步云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jianlei yushi 监雷御史. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Yongshanshê 永善社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 5) Dongkaici 东开祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang zhenren 张真人, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 6) Fulinfu 绂麟府 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. These four temples stand in a row next to the main temple. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 The Xianglu 香炉 of Fuxingtan 福兴坛 is invited by the Ke 柯 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and go on a procession within the territory. On 1/17 the villagers take part in the common procession of the thirteen village alliance. On 1/18, gods of Fushoutan 福寿坛 are invited by the Xiao 肖 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and go on a procession within the village. In the evening there are stepping on the fire 踏火堆 and palm sedan chairs 棕轿. On 2/2 the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Ke 柯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masterss are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods For the birthday celebrations of the gods, there are only offerings. No opera is performed for these occasions The main rituals take place in the Fushougong 福寿宫 of Xiaojia 肖甲. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xiao 肖. 5/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Xiao 肖. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is organized by the Ke 柯. On these occasions funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V563 Zhixiang 直巷 1. Village settlement Zhixiang village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village松东行政村. Zhixiang 直巷 has a population over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Liu 刘 and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples 1) Fushougong 福寿宫 in Songbanjing 松坂境 is also known as the Zhixiang xiagong 直巷下宫, and contains the altar of the Yongshanshê 永善社: It is the main temple of the thirteen-fold jia of Songban 松 阪十三甲. The temple was built in Kangxi 61 (1722). It was rebuilt during the reign of Emperor Qianlong and in Xianfeng 1 (1851). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ruigou shenghou 瑞沟圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣 侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng zhongjun 彭中军, Zhuojiao zhongjun 卓角中军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Songban used to have a Yongxingtang 永兴堂, but it has long been destroyed. Fushougong 福寿宫 branched out from Yongxingtang 永兴堂 and thus has become the main temple of the thirteen-fold village alliance of Songban 松阪十三甲. Later, Fushougong 福寿宫 had two branch temples branched out from it, namely, the Fushoumiao 福寿庙 and the Fushoutan 福寿坛. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 goes to each household to quandeng 圈灯 link lanterns, and to practice the Dao 行道. Opera is performed for three days with funds raised on a per capita basis from within the Songban ritual alliance. On 1/17 the gods of the Fushougong 福寿宫, Fushoutan 福寿坛 and Fushoumiao 福寿庙 go on a procession of inspection around the boundaries of the village, and race across a bonfire. At 2 o’clock in the afternoon, boys from the village draw lots to see who will be allowed to carry the gods across the bonfire. On 2/1, the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Liu 刘. On 2/2 the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Ke 柯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday of Peng zhongjun 彭中军. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5/5: The Duanyang 端阳 festival is celebrated and opera is performed for five days. 5/7: The birthday celebration of the Five Gongchen of Taipingbei 太平陂 五功臣 and Peng zhongjun 彭中军. Funds are raised on a per capita basis from the villages of Xiacuodian 下厝店, Sizhou 泗营, Xiapo 下坡 and Daopo 道坡. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis within the village or by voluntary donations. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Baiyuan 白园 1. Village settlement Baiyuan includes Tianluokeng 田螺坑 belongs to the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 800 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘, making up close to 70% of the population. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Fushoumiao 福寿庙 Yulingong 毓麟宫: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhuojiao jiangjun 卓角将军, Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Yongshoushê 永寿社, Juyundong 聚云洞 The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 there is a procession of the gods within the thirteen jia 十三甲. On 1/18 all the gods of Yongshoushê 永寿社 go on procession within the village. Birthday celebration of the gods On a day determined by divination, in the fourth lunar month, the birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V565 Xiangtou 巷头 1. Village settlement Xiangtou village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 200 people living in Xiangtou village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples Yanshou gong 延寿宫; Yongshanshê 永善社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the shêlu 社炉 is carried in procession to every household within the village to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/17, the villagers participate in the procession of gods throughout the thirteen jia 十三甲 ritual association. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. 7/23: the birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two to three days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis and by voluntary donations. 
V566 Lingqian 岭前 1. Village settlement Lingqian village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Lingqian village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxinggong 永兴宫 is co-owned with Pudun 埔墩 village. The main gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Yongxingshê 永兴社: built in 2003. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Fushougong 福寿宫 is invited to xingdao (practice the Dao) 行道 in every household. On 1/13 all the gods of Yongxinggong 永兴宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 1/15: Birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4/15: Birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 
V567 Pudun 埔墩 1. Village settlement Pudun village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 400 people living in Pudun. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Shangling zushê 上凌祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yonglingdong 永灵洞: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Fushougong 福寿宫 is invited to xingdao (practice the Dao) 行道 in every household. On 1/15, all the gods of Yongxinggong 永兴宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V568 Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 1. Village settlement Dingcuowei village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Dingcuowei has a population of over 500 people. The main livelihoods are agriculture but many female workers work in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Xu 徐, Zhuang 庄, Yao 姚, Cai 蔡 (two households), and Weng 翁(one household). The Chen 陈 came from Dongyang village 东阳 in Chengxiang 城厢. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxinggong 新兴宫: The temple was renovated in 1982. The gods worshipped are: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Li sanfuren 李三夫人. 2) Xinfeng beishê 新丰北社 has an inscription on a pillar dating to Guangxu 14 (1888). Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Toutiaoxi 头条戏 is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–14, a procession is held within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/15: A celebration is held for Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/13: A celebration is held for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: A celebration is held for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/19: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V569 Putou 埔头 1. Village settlement Putou village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Putou has approximately 900 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yao 姚 and the He 何. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Weng 翁. The Yao 姚 came from Qinyuan 沁园 in Hanjiang 涵江. The He 何 came from Shandou 山兜 of Jiufeng 九峰 in Wutang 梧塘. The Li 李 came from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Weng 翁 came from Dongpo 东坡 in Wutang 梧塘. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng nanshê 新丰南社: Upper altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝; Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jungong dianshuai 郡公殿帅; Right altar: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Yuyunsi 寓云寺: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–8, the gods go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 3/11: The celebration for Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/13: Is the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 birthday. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5/11: The celebration for Jungong dianshuai 郡公殿帅. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis, at a rate of 2 to 3 RMB/person. 
V570 Xizheng 西郑 1. Village settlement Xizheng village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Xizheng has over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. During the early years of the Republican period, Xizheng village was devastated by the Nanbei Army 南北军. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu dongshê 集福东社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗. 2) Judetang 聚德堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, processions are held within the village. On 1/14, the incense burners of the temple, the shêlu 社炉, are taken to “practice the Dao 行道” in every household. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/15: Is the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 birthday. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
A125 Jiufeng qijia (Jiufeng seven jia ritual alliance) 九峰七甲 The Jiufeng sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Nangshan mountain 囊山. This area relies on the water of Jiufeng sanba dams along mountain streams 九峰三坝. The alliance includes Lianhe village 联合村, Dinggou 顶沟, Shipaidou 石牌兜, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. It was originally part of the Yishan Dongpu (police/defense unit) 依山东铺 of Yanshouli (sub-canton) 延寿里. Anninggong 安宁宫 in Jiufeng 九峰 village is the main temple for the seven village ritual alliance. Currently, Jiufeng is managed by the Jiufeng Administrative Village 九峰行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into seven jia ritual associations based primarily on settlement. 
V571 Lianhecun 联合村 1. Village settlement Lianhe (united village) includes Niushan 牛山, Caopu 草埔, Gongbian 宫边, and Jiucuofang 旧厝房. There are approximately 900 people living in these settlements. The main livelihoods are agriculture and fruit tree cultivation 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhuang 庄. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Xie 谢. In addition, there are eightJiufeng seven jia ritual alliance main surname groups including the Pang 庞, Huang 黄, Long 龙, Nian 廿, and Fang 方. Each surname group has a similar number of people. The Pang 庞 came from Huian 惠安, and the Huang 黄 came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, while the origins of the other surname groups are unknown. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. There is no common worship on Qingming 清明 festival or on Winter Solstice 冬至. 3. Village temples 1) Jiufengjing Anninggong 九峰境安宁宫 contains the altar of the Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was rebuilt in Daoguang 18 (1838). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Jinzhongjun 金中军. 2) Juyingting 聚英亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Fulintang 福霖堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Zhengben shuyuan 正本书院 is dedicated to the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 209 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–14, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jin zhongjun 金中军 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis from Caopu 草埔 and Gongbian 宫边. On 1/15, the gods of Anninggong 安宁宫 are returned to the temple. A fire walking ceremony is held and palm sedan chairs are raced over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for three days, with five performances in all. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. However, half of the people do not want to donate. 2/19, 6/19, 10/19: All of these dates are Guanyin dashi’s 观音大士 feast days. Opera is usually performed for two days. Contributions are collected on a per household basis from Jiufeng 九峰, Gongbian 宫边 and Jiucuofang 旧厝房, or by voluntary donations. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for one or two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance, or by voluntary donations. Dinggou 顶沟 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Dinggou village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. Other surname groups include the Lin 林 and the Deng 邓. 3. Village temples Dexingmiao 德兴庙: The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qiye 七爷. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chair are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. On 2/2, there is a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune). This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: A celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for one or two days. This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 8/15: A celebration of Qiye’s 七爷 birthday. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual organization The title of Fushou 福首 is rotated among those who are over 50 years old. 
V573 Shipaidou 石牌兜 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Shipaidou. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Jiang 江 and the Yan 颜. 3. Village temples 1) Xingyundian 兴云殿: The main god is Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Jiulianyan 九莲岩: The main god is Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. Secondary gods include the Baxian 八仙. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chairs are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 5/18: Birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V574 Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement There are over 400 people living in Tianzhongyang. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Qiyemiao 七爷庙: The main god is Qiye 七爷. 2) Qinglinggong 青麟宫: Main god: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Xingshanci 兴山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 231 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 8/15: There are birthday celebrations held for Qiye 七爷. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chair are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
A126 Lipu qijing (Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance) 励浦七境 The Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance 励浦七境 is located within the Taiping weir 太平陂 irrigation system. The alliance includes the nine villages of Matou 码头, Dubin 都邠, Xiujiao 秀郊, Chengfeng 澄峰, Qiandongpo 前东坡, Houdongpo 后东坡, and Nankeng 南坑 (Jiangkeng 蒋坑). This region originally belonged to the Yishan xipu 依山西舖 (police/defense unit) of Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里. In the Ming, Banrou 阪头 village was settled. During the Qing, the villages of Dubian 度边, Shudou 树兜, Dubin 都邠, Qianlin 前林, Jiangkeng 蒋坑, Qiandongpu 前东埔 and Houdongpu divided off. This area now is managed by the Matou 码头, Doubin 都邠, Dongpo 东坡 and Hangxia 黄霞 Administrative Villages. In the temple ritual system, Lipu qijing is divided into seven ritual territories according to the distribution of shê temples. The Beijidian 北极殿 of Matou village 码头村 is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. Each year of the dragon Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on a procession through the seven fold ritual alliance. The founding shê-altar temple of the Lipu ritual alliance 励浦祖社 was originally in Xiujiao village 秀郊村 but it burned down in 1918. Nine separate Lipushê 励浦社 were built, one in each village, and the original god statues of the founding altar were also distributed to the various shê temples. In recent years, a new Lipu zushê 励浦祖社 has been reconstructed on the site of the original founding shê temple, and it is managed by representatives of each village temple in the alliance. Each year on 3/23 the birthdayLipu sevenfold ritual alliance of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is celebrated there, and on 4/13 there is a celebration held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人诞辰. On 4/26 a celebration is held for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and on 8/1 a celebration of Fazhu shengfei 法主圣妃 is held. On each occasions, opera is performed for two or three days. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 29 (1849) entitled 鼎建北极殿双圣寝庙赖忠烈田元帅, 袁大人降乩劝缘碑 (Stele on the construction of the Double Deity temple of the Northern Pole Temple due to the raising of funds instigated by the spirit medium writings of the Loyal and Ardent Commander in Chief Tian and Great Lord Yuan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:315, No. 279). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Lipu Qijing were all white banner alliance. 
V575 Matou 码头 1. Village settlement Matou was originally called Bantou 阪头 or Qianlin 前林 and belonged to Matou Administrative Village 码头行政村. The village of Matou has a total population of over 1200 people, living in over 200 households. The village is divided into Qianzhi 前至 and Houzhi 后至 neighborhoods. The main livelihood is farming, with pickled vegetables as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname of Qianzhi 前至 is the Qiu 邱, and there are also the Chen 陈 and the Xiao 萧. The main surname of Houzhi 后至 is the Hou 侯, but there are also minor surnames including the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Liu 刘, the Xiao 萧, and the Ke 柯. The founding ancestor of the Qiu, Master Jizong 继宗公 was a descendant of the Qiu of Jinjiang Shihi 晋江石狮. 3. Village temples 1) Qianlinjing Beijidian 前林境北极殿 is divided into a front and a back hall, and is the main overall temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. In the front hall a beam is inscribed with the date of renovation in Qing Jiaqing 23 (1818). Three stelae survive in the temple, one from Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816), one from Qing Daoguang 29 (1849), and the third from 1981. The front hall central altar is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. The left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, the right altar: Lingguan dadi 右座神帐: 灵官大帝. On the left side is Baiya dajiang 白牙大将. In the left hand hall, called the Ganyingci 感应祠, are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 and some spirit tablets. In the back hall, called the Shuangshengdian 双圣殿, the central altar is dedicated to Shengfu 圣父 and Shengmu 圣母. The left altar: Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥 妙将, the right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The back left hand hall is called the Peiyuan shuyuan 培元书院, and the central altar is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. The right hand hall is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 2) Minantang 民安堂 (also called the Minan shuyuan 民安书院) is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left is Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, and on the right Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the far left side is Hufa longtian 护法龙天, and on the far right Zhida Chen 智达陈先生 and Puyao Liang 普耀梁先生, two late Qing leaders of the Three in One religious movement. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records forty-four initiates. 3) Qianlin Guotaisi 前林国泰寺 belongs to Houzhi 后至. The temple is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi Xuantian shangdi 元天上帝(玄天上帝). 4) Mingshengtang 明圣堂 is divided into three halls and belongs to Qianzhi 前至. The main hall’s (facing south) central altar is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left is Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人 and to the right Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. In the back hall the central altar is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Xiaosheng xianshi 萧圣先师, right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, The lower altar (facing north) central altar is dedicated to Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. The left altar is that of Lipushê 励浦社 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Daye大爷. The right hand altar is for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records forty-five initiates. 5) Qianlinjing Lipushê 前林境励浦社 contains the Xianyingtan 显应坛, and belongs to Qianzhi 前至. The temple was restored in Qing Jiaqing 12 (1807). The central altar is dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, the left altar to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Chifeng Xiao zongguan 敕 封萧总管. The right altar is dedicated to Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Lingtong Zhangsheren 灵通张舍人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 6) Qianlijing Fengyangdian 前林境凤阳殿 belongs to Houzhi 后至 and was restored in 1985年. The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 (called Shenggong 圣公, and to the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, villagers go first to the Lipugong (shê altar) 励浦宫(社) to ask for incense fire 请香火, and then go to the Beijidian 北极殿 to again ask for incense fire, and then return to the Xianyingtan 显进坛 to invite Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 to go on a procession to xingnuo “exorcise the demons” 出巡行傩. On 2/2 the fengjin 奉金 (reverencing with gold) ritual is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 4/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 8/22: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by Houzhi 后至. 11/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed each year on 10/15 or 10/16. Five Three in One Scripture masters are invited from the Tiezao 铁灶 Daotang (Assembly of the Way) to conduct the pudu rites for a day. If there are individuals desiring to repay a vow to the gods they can sponsor a performance of marionette plays at this time. The birthday of gods in Xianyingtan 显进坛 are as follows 1/12 Lintong Zhangsheren 灵通张舍人 1/13 Chifeng Xiaozongguan 敕封萧总管 2/25 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/9 Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯 3/13 Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 4/9 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 6/10 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 7/22 Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘 7/23 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 8/1 Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 5. Ritual Groups The Three in One temples in the village are quite active, and maintain a busy annual schedule of rituals, in addition to daily and monthly rites. There is no Tanban altar association or hereditary spirit medium tradition. In recent years, however, ardent young men of the village have gathered to chant invocations of the gods in the temple, and whoever is able to become possessed becomes the spirit medium. 
V576 Dubin 都邠 1. Village settlement Dubin village was originally called Dubian 度边 or Lubian 路边 and belonged to Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The village has approximately 2500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in Dubin village are the Li 李, the Bao 鲍 and the Guo 郭. There are also families of the Zeng 曾, the He 何, the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Wang 王, and the Wu 吴 surnames. The Li are the Baitang Li 白塘李. It is claimed that their ancestors first moved from Yangwei in Hanjiang 涵江洋尾 to Anxi 安溪, and then later returned to Duotou in Hanjiang 涵江哆头, finally moving to Dubin village from Duoqian 哆前. Up to this time, they have been in the village for sixteen generations. The Li have divided into three branches, and have a total of 160 households in the village. The Bao 鲍 came from Ningbo in Zhejiang 浙江宁波 via Yongchun (Sanyang) 永春三洋. One of their ancestors fled troubles and moved to Dubin village, where he had four children. One had no progeny, but the others founded three branches, which have now reached their eighteenth generation. Originally there was a lineage genealogy. The Guo have divided into the Shangguo 上郭 and the Xiaguo 下郭. The Shangguo moved to the village from Minnan 闽南 and have about twenty households. The Xiaguo moved from Meiyang village in Qiulu 荻芦 梅阳村 and now have over 100 households in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Dubinjing Lipushê 都邠境励浦社 houses the Xianyingtan 显圣坛. The central altar is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The left altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. The right altar is for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, and Qixing niangniang 七星娘娘. 2) Sanshenggong 三圣宫 was originally two temples in front with another hall behind. In 1984 it was rebuilt as a row of three temples. In the central hall of the Xianshenggong 显圣宫, on the central altar, is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. On the left is Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, on the right is Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The left temple is called the Yangshengci 仰圣祠 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Shuizhu xianshi 水珠 仙师 and Liu xianshi 刘仙师. On the left altar are Pufa tianzun 普法天尊 and Wen taishi 文太师, on the right altar is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. The right hand temple is the Fengshengdian 凤圣殿, which is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, locally called Shenggong 圣公. On the left altar is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and on the right altar, Guma 姑妈. 3) Xianyingmiao beijidian 显应庙, 北极殿 is divided into front and back halls. The temple was restored in 1992. The front hall is called the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. To the left is Guan Ping 关平, and to the right Zhou Cang 周仓. Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 are worshipped in the front of the temple. The back hall is called the Beijidian 北极殿 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left is Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and on the right, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Qingyuntang 青元堂 is dedicated to Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. On the left is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, on the right Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 5) Yangshengci 仰圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 with Qianliyan 千里眼 and Xunfenger 顺风耳, on the right is Tiangong yuanshua 田公元帅 with Daye 大爷 further off to the side. 6) Chunyangtang 纯阳堂 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 7) Fuqingsi 福庆寺 is dedicated to Shijia mounifo 释迦牟尼佛. To the left is Weituo 韦陀, and to the right Jialan 迦蓝. The eastern half of the temple is the Dijunmiao 帝君庙 and is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师. The west side is another temple, the Miaoyingtang 妙应堂, dedicated to Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Weituo 韦驮. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, incense fire is requested from the incense burner of Miaoyin zushi 妙应祖师 in the Fuqingsi Miaoyingtang 福庆寺妙应堂. The incense is taken back to the Xianshengtan 显圣坛, where all the gods of the nearby temples are summoned, and the procession prepares itself. On 1/13, in the evening, they again go the Beijidian 北极殿 of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 to invoke all the gods again. Then they use five palm sedan chairs as seats for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (in his martial aspect 武身), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Li sanfuren 李三夫人 who are all taken in a procession to each household. On 1/14 Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师 is escorted back to his temple, and all the gods return to the shê temple. On 1/15, in the night, candles of happiness 喜烛 are lit in the temple (and taken to each household). On 1/15–16, Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮 and opera is performed for two days. On 1/17, all the gods are escorted back to their own temples. Each year ten Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the rituals. From 1/12 onwards, they prepare a vegetarian feast and offerings and place them in a great display before the shê temple. This is called the Liyan 里宴 or “rustic banquet”. Finally, all the boys under the age of fifteen in the village are invited to a feast. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7–8: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 1/15–16: The celebration of the Wenwu zhushen (all the gods) 文武诸神. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and Earth 天地. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7/27: The celebration of Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 8/15: The celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Formerly there was a spirit medium possessed by Qitian dasheng, but at present there are no spirit mediums at the temple. 
V577 Xiujiao 秀郊 1. Village settlement Xiujiao was originally known as Shudou 树兜 and belonged to the Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The entire village has a total of 120 households and more than 700 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, with some handicrafts as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in the village is the Wu 吴, with approximately 110 households. Other surnames include the Jiang 江, with seven households, and the Tang 唐, with three households. The Wu moved to the village from Xizhu 西洙 village near Putian 莆田, and have lived in the village for eleven generations. There used to be a Wu ancestral hall 吴氏祠堂, but it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Xiujiaojing Lipushê 秀郊境励浦社 contains the Fuxingtan 福兴坛. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810) and was repaired in 1981. A stele is preserved in the temple entitled Chongjian Fuxingtan beiji 重建福 兴坛碑记 (Stele record of the reconstruction of the Fuxingtan), dated Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810). The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On the left are Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and on the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝 is in a miniature Beijidian 北极殿 temple in a niche above the altar. On the left is a mural of the Lipushê 励浦社 featuring Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Zhangong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to take charge of the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The celebration of Yuhuang shangdi 玉皇上帝. Representatives are sent to the Lingyundian on Hugong mountain 壶山凌云殿 to ask for the incense of Yuhuang shangdi. Opera is performed for two days. 1/16: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Marionette plays are performed. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 11/15: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed 下元 普度 and marionette plays are sponsored. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village originally had spirit mediums who were possessed by Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Currently, Fuxingtang has two older and several younger mediums, a number of whom are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 each Yuanxiao festival to perform exorcistic dances 行傩. There is also a Three in One temple called the Yangbentang 养本堂. The SJCDCB, 1992 records forty-two initiates. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Xiangmingan 香明庵 in the village. 4/13:Chengfeng 澄峰 1. Village settlement Chengfeng belongs to the Huangxia Administrative Village 黄霞行政村. The total village population is over 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yao 姚. They moved to the village from Qinyuan 沁园 over four or five hundred years ago. Currently they are divided into four lineage branches. On 9/9 there is a collective worship of the lineage at the tombs of the ancestors. At Qingming 清明 and Dongzhi 冬至 each family cleans the graves of its immediate ancestors. 3. Village temples 1) Chengfengjing Lipushê 澄峰境励浦社: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wufu dashen 乌府大神, Zhushi sanniang 朱氏三娘, and Ershiye 二使爷. 2) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The other gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 3) Lingfengting 凌峰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. 4) Fengxingan 凤兴庵 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 5) Qiyundian 齐云殿 is dedicated to Songgong yuanshuai 宋公元帅. Other gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Zhu qiboye 朱七伯爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken to each home to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19 the gods of Lipushê 励浦社 are invited to go on a tour of inspection procession through the entire village. The roadways are sealed against demons, and people pray for good fortune. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration for Wufu daren 乌府大人. 5/22: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. 7/16: The celebration for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/1: The celebration for Ershiye 二使爷. 10/17: The celebration for Songgong yuanshuai 宋公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Each year by rotation based on age nine Fushou 福首 are selected to be in charge of the rituals. Two of them, who must be over 60 years of age, are called the senior Fushou, while the seven others are called the new Fushou. 
V579 Dongpo 东坡 1. Village settlement Dongpo was originally called Dongpu 东埔 and belonged to the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. This village was established in the Ming dynasty, and is now divided into two parts, Qiandongpo 前东坡 and Houdongpo 后东坡, with a total population of approximately 5000 people. Qiandongpo 前东坡 has over 3000 people, and Houdongpo 后东坡 has over 1000. The main livelihood is farming, supplement by fruit trees, women working in shoe factories, and villagers from Qiandongpo working in the large Xuejin 雪津 beer factory. 2. Surname groups The entire village of Qiandongpo 前东坡 is surnamed Weng 翁. In Houdongpo 后东坡 the Weng are the main surname group with the Chen 陈 having only one household, and the Lin 林 eight or nine households. The Dongpo Weng lineage claims to have come from Qingjiang 清江 in Huangshi 黄石 or from Beigao 北高. A genealogy of the Jingzhao Weng of Puyang 莆阳京兆翁氏族谱 has been preserved. Two stelae are preserved in the Weng Ancestral hall. These are the Qianlong 5 (1740) 衍庆祠 田园地租碑记 (Stele recording the land rent from the fields and orchards of the Shrine of Expanding Good Tidings) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:229, No. 199) and the Qianlong 36 ( 1771) 翁氏宗祠碑记 (Stele on the Weng Lineage Ancestral Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:250, No. 215). 3. Village temples 1) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Li duyuanshuai 李都元帅, Heihu dashen 黑虎 大神, Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王, Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, Liujin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. At the sides of the door are altars dedicated to Liujin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Hougong shenghou 侯公圣侯. 2) Yizunshê 义尊社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shunlingong 顺麟宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Left altar: Sanwei furen 三位夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Dongxingtang 东兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Left: Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人. Right: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 6) Xingyundian 兴云殿 was rebuilt in 1984, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Liu zhongjun 刘中军. Right: You zhongjun 游中军. 7) Qingyuanmiao 青源庙 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Left: Jin daren 金大人. Right: Jiu daye 九大爷. 8) Yuyun Buddhist temple 寓云寺 was built in the Ming (PTZJZCG, 1992:215) 9) Liben shuyuan 立本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 239 initiates. 10) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 222 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Qiandongpo 前东坡 goes on procession. On 1/12, Houdongpo 后东坡 goes on procession. On both these days, the gods are taken across a bonfire 踏火 and a procession of linked lanterns is held 圈灯. A single Daoist ritual master 道士 is invited to conduct rites. Four palm sedan chairs are prepared for the martial version of Qitian dasheng 武齐天大圣, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅, and Lidu yuanshuai 李都元帅. Four Fushou 福首 from each area organize the ritual activities. Opera is performed each day. On 2/2, a sedan chair is carried out to collect cash contributions. A large sedan chair is prepared for Wugong dutong 吴公都统 and four small sedan chairs and prepared for the (civil version) of Qitian dasheng 文齐天大圣, the martial version of Qitian dasheng 武齐天大圣, Li duyuanshuai 李都元帅, Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, and another procession is held. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/10: The celebration for Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/5: The celebration for Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 7/7: The celebration for Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 9/9: The celebration for Wugong dutong 吴公都统. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These celebrations are organized by the entire village as a whole, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 
V580 Nankeng 南坑 1. Village settlement Nankeng was originally called Jiangkeng 蒋坑. Nankeng village belongs to the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. There are currently 360 people living in the village. Nankeng was originally part of the Lipu xishê 励浦西社 of Jiangkengjing 蒋坑境 of Yanshouli (subcanton) 延寿里 of Tanganxiang (township) 唐安乡 of Putianxian (county) 莆田县 of Xinghua Prefecture 兴化府. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village, including the Li 李, the Huang 黄, the Qiu 邱, the Weng 翁, the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Li 李 came from Duotou 哆头. The Qiu 邱 came from Matou 码头 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Huang 黄 came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang. The Wu 吴 came from Houhuang 后黄 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Kuijugong 奎聚宫 was rebuilt in 1982. The main gods are Xingzai baoyu dawang 行灾保御大王, Beidou Zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, and Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘. 2) Lipu xishê 励浦西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Note: It is said that during the early Republican period, Lipushê 励浦社 was burnt down by the Nanbei Army 南北军, and dispersed to the surrounding villages. 3) 天宪庙 Xianxianiao is dedicated to 李大人, also known as the Xingzai Baoyu dawang 行灾保御大王. The secondary gods are the four dajiang Liu 刘, Zhang 张, Zhao 赵 and Su 苏. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao Rituals On 1/10 the villagers carry the incense burners from the shê temple to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/ 11 there is a procession through the village. A single Daoist master is invited to conduct rites. Three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 and Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘. The village elders carry the statues of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and a Tongzi 童子. There were formerly two Fushou 福首, one old and one new, but currently there are four, with one old and three new, to organize the rituals. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/13: Birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/10: Birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 7/21: Birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人 also known as Baoyu dawang 保御大王. 8/1: Birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, opera is performed four times in the village, each time for lasting for two days. 4 yuan is collected per person each time. 
A127 Huangan qijing (Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance) 黄安七境 The Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance is located within the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂灌溉系统 just northeast of Hanjiang 涵江 city. This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) and the Yishan xipu 依山西铺 of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Xialing 下陵 and Huangxiang 黄巷 were already settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Huangan 黄安, Xiazhuang 下张, Qianlin 前林, Qianhuang 前黄, Cangkou 仓口 and Qianpu 前埔 separated off. These villages are managed by two Administrative Villages: Huangxia 黄霞 and Canglin 苍林行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units, within the seven villages of Huangan 黄安, Xiaxiao 霞霄, Huangxiang 黄巷, Xialin 下林, Cangkou 苍口, Xilin 西林, and Xipo 西坡. Originally there was a founding she-altar in the village of Huangan 黄安, with Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 as the main gods. Because the village was torn down and its lands were converted into an industrial park, the temple no longer exists. Therefore, each village has since built their own independent shê temple. Collective rituals and processions for the entire sevenfold alliance have not been revived. Historically, the Huang lineage of Huanggang 黄巷黄氏 were a prominent local lineage with many examination graduates. In the Ming Zhengtong period (1436–49) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in Qianhuang 前黄 village. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495), a Guoying 国英牌坊 memorial archway was set up in Huanggang 黄巷 village in honor of the Huang lineage. 
V581 Xiaxiao 霞宵 1. Village settlement Xiaxiao village includes Huangan 黄安 and belongs to the Huangxia administrative village 黄霞行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance 2. Surname groups Surname groups in the village include the Lin 林, the Xu 许, the Liu 刘, the Wu 吴, the Zhang 张, and the Chen 陈. The Lin are the dominant surname group, and claim to be descendants of the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. They state that in the Tang dynasty they moved to the village from Wushi 乌石 in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Xiaxiaojing Huanganshê 霞宵境黄安社 contains the Yongningshê 永宁社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Wanyundain 万云殿 is dedicated to Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁. 3) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4) Kaiyuanmiao 开元庙: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Yingdetang 英德堂 is dedicated to Huangying mama 黄英妈妈. Other gods are Ma jiangjun 马将军 and Huanger jiangjun 黄二将军. 6) Hualitang 化里堂 is dedicated to Qiangong yuanshuai 千公元帅. 7) Qingguangtang 清光堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Guangyuantang 光源堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Dexingting 德兴亭 is also dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10) Shunqingtang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fourteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, each of the nine ancestral houses of the entire village invites the gods to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Meiling 梅岭 of Wutang 梧塘 to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. On 1/16, Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 are carried in sedan chairs on a tour of inspection procession around the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huanganshê 黄安社 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Beijidian 北极殿. 4/9: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Kaiyuanmiao 开元庙. 6/6: The celebration for Fude zhengsheng 福德正神 is organized by the Qingguangtang 清光堂. 8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hualitang 化里堂. 9/17: The celebration for the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongningshê 永宁社 is organized by the village as a whole. 10/25: The celebration for Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁 is organized by the village as a whole. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and rituals are held. 
V582 Huangxiang 黄巷 1. Village settlement The village of Huangxiang is also known as Huanggang 黄冈. The village belongs to the Huangxia Administrative Village 黄 霞行政村. The current population is approximately 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Shang 上 and Xia Huanggang 下黄冈. 2. Surname groups Huangxiang is a single surname village of the Huang 黄 lineage. The village has a history of over 1000 year, when the Huang ancestors moved from Henan 河南. The Huang Great Lineage hall 黄氏大 祠堂 worships Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, the Tang monk who was a member of the lineage. The ancestral hall is a cultural relic of the Hanjiang 涵江 municipality. The tomb of Huang’an 黄岸墓 and the old home of Huang Pu 黄璞故居 have been preserved. Each year on 1/8 members of the Huang lineage from all over the area and from neighboring counties come to worship their ancestors. Opera is performed from 1/6–1/8. There are several stelae and rubbings of stone inscriptions about the Huang Ancestral hall preserved in the hall, including a rubbing of the Qingyuan 2 (1196) inscription by Zhu Xi 朱熹 entitled 唐桂州刺史封开国公谥忠义黄公祠记 (Record of the Ancestral hall of his Honor Huang, posthumously entitled the Loyal and Righteous Governor of Guizhou in the Tang, enfeoffed as the Duke who founded the Nation) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:30, No. 29) and a stele composed in Jiajing 4 (1525) entitled 谕祭大理寺少卿黄巩碑 (Inscription on the Imperially ordered sacrifices to Huang Gong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:152, No. 129). Other texts of inscriptions relating to this hall include that composed by Lin Jun 林俊 in Zhengde 10 (1515) entitled 黄巷黄氏祠 堂记 (Record of Huangxiang Huang Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:140, No. 119), and another composed in Guangxu 11 (1885) by Huang Zhongzan 黄中瓒 entitled 重修黄巷祠墓碑记 (Stele recording the repairs to the Huangxiang shrine ancestral tombs) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:343, No. 306). 3. Village temples 1) Huanggangjing Taipingshê 黄冈境太平社 is the ancestral shê altar of the Huang lineage. The temple was burned down in 1918 during armed conflict and was rebuilt in 1946. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Ciji zhenjin 慈济真君, Shitong dutong 石潼都统, Lingtong sheren 灵通 舍人, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯. 2) Wenwudian 文武殿 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Guohuansi Buddhist temple 国欢寺 was originally the home of two brothers, Huang Niepan 涅磐 and Huang Benji 本寂, in the Tang dynasty. Their parents were buried to the east of home in the 五大夫黄公墓. The brothers moved into the Yanyang temple 延杨寺 and the local government gave the temple the name Guohuan Chanyuan 国欢禅院. In Ming Wanli 1612, the Buddhist monk Ruren 如忍 rebuilt the Great Hall, and bequeathed a Buddhist Tripitaka. In Yongli 4 (1650), the abbot Chaoyuan 超元 went to Japan and became the founder of the Pangui Chan Buddhist order 盘珪禅派. This temple was rebult several times, in 1669 by Buddist monk Chaomin 超旻, and in 1946 and again in 1989. The stone inscriptions about this temple include a text from the Yongle period (1403–1424) composed by Lin Huan 林环 entitled 重建国欢禅寺记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Guoquan Chan Monastery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:90, No. 82). Extent stelae include the Wanli 38 (1610) 莆阳莲山国欢禅院重兴佛殿新造 藏经记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Buddha Hall and the new building of the Buddhist Suttra Hall of the Gouhuan Chongfu Chan Monastery at Lianshan in Puyang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:197, No. 173) and the Jiaqing 20 (1815) 重修国欢古伽蓝并三门功德碑 (Stele recording the merit accrued from the restoration of the Guohuan Ancient Jialan Monastery and three Gateways) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:292, No. 254). 4) Licheng shuyuan 立诚书院 is also known as Shangsheng temple 上生寺. The stone inscription composed by Zheng Yue 郑岳 in Zhengde 15 (1520) entitled 立诚书院记 (Record of the Establishment of Sincerity Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:146, No. 124). The temple includes a shrine to Huang Gong which is commemorated in the inscription composed in Jiajing 23 by Lin Dalu 林大辂 entitled 黄巩祠祀田记 (Record of the purchase of land to support the sacrifices at the shrine dedicated to Huang Gong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:168, No. 146). 5) Wuyuan shuyuan 悟原书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 132 initiates. 6) Hongbentang 宏本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records ten initiates. 7) Zongdetang 宗德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records thirty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Shanghuanggang 上黄冈 invites Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 to each of its households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to go on a tour of inspection procession of the boundaries of their territory. On 1/12, Xiahuanggang 下黄冈 invites Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯 to each of its household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to go on a tour of inspection procession of the boundaries of their territory. On 1/15, the entire village celebrates Yuanxiao, and each household goes to the ancestral hall to light lanterns and candles. Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师 is taken on a procession around the village, and the roadways are sealed from demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Opera is performed for eight days. 5/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/4: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Opera is performed for two days. 10/19: The celebration of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. 
V583 Xialin 下林 1. Village settlement Xialin village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. Xialin village has a population of over 600 people living in approximately 150 households. The village is small and land is scarce. All around factories have taken most of the land. The main livelihood now is leaving the village to go work in factories, and farming is only a supplement. A minority work on firing porcelain tiles. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Zeng 曾. There are also many other surnames including the Zhang 张, the He 何, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, the Cui 崔, the Lin 林, the Yao 姚, the Liu 刘, the Zhuang 庄, the Fang 方, the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. The Zeng have divided into two branches, known as the Dazeng 大曾 and the Xiaozeng 小曾. The Dazeng come from Jikui 集奎 in Hanjiang 涵江, the Xiaozeng come from Xialin 下林 near Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Xialinjing Yongxingshê 霞林境永兴社 branched off from the ancient Huangan 黄安 shê altar, but was demolished in 1958 and only recently has been rebuilt on its original foundations. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑. 2) Xialing Longfenggong 霞陵龙峰宫 was restored in 1988. The main altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. On the front altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 or 1/10, divination blocks are cast to invite Jin daren 金大人 to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Two palm sedan chairs are prepared for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Dutong yuanshuai 都统元帅 or Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on procession within the village. At night a procession of lanterns traces the boundaries of the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to recite scriptures and hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year, four Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility. Two of them hold the old incense burners, and two hold the new ones. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2/10: The celebration of Chenshi furen 陈氏真人. 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3/2: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/13: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣. 4/23: The celebration of Shui shengwang 水圣王. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗 星君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/26: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 10/1: The celebration of Jin daren 金大人. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On five of these occasions opera is performed for two days, and the other gods are invited to watch the plays. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xialin village had a tanban 坛班 altar association in the past, but in recent years it has not been revived, and no guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place. There is a Three in One hall called the Fudetang 复德堂 dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Cangkou 苍口 1. Village settlement Cangkou village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. There are approximately 400 households today in Cangkou village, which has a population of approximately 2000 people. The main livelihood of the village is agriculture. Vegetable gardening is the main sideline. Other sources of income include working in construction. Very few are in trades. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 许. Other surnames include the Yao 姚, the Guo 郭, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Gong 龚 (one household). 3. Village temples 1) Qilin zonggong 麒麟宗宫 is the main overall temple for the three villages of Cangkou 苍口, Xipo 西坡, Xilin 西林. The temple has four subordinate shê altars 四社. These are the Cangfeng 苍峰 (Canglin 苍林) Yonganshê 永安社, the Yongningshê 永宁社 of Xipo 西坡, the Huangan xishê 黄安西社 and the Xilin 西林 (Qianhuang 前黄) Taipingshê 太平社. The main god is Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Cangfengjing Yonganshê 苍峰境永安社 contains a Beijidian 北极殿, and was restored in 1984. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Beijidian is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Cangfengjing Yongningshê 苍峰境永宁社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Biyundian 碧云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Qixing niangniang 七星娘娘. Right altar: Guangong dijun 关公帝君. 5) Yangxingtang 养性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. 6) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 7) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fifty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 and 1/10 the Yonganshê 永安社 and Yongningshê 永宁社 combine to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. The procession includes three village elders who carry the incense burners of the shê altars. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7–8: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Representatives are sent to Hugong Mountain Lingyundian temple 壶山凌云殿 to request incense fire 香火. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. The celebration of Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The celebration of Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the 永安社 Yonganshê. 10/25: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongningshê 永宁社. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 12/5: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by five or six Three in One Scripture Masters from the Anbentang 安本堂经师. 5. Ritual Groups The Yongningtang 永德堂 is managed by a Buddhist nun, and is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. The village Three in One hall is called the Anbentang 安本堂 and was restored in 1993. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教堂, left altar: Zhang Sanfeng zhenren 张三丰 真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchan dijun 文昌帝君, Weituo韦驮 (Hufa longtian 护法龙天) and Wen taishi 文太师. 3/3: 3/13: 4/20: 6/6: 7/23: 8/13: 9/24:Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement Xilin village was originally known as Qianhuang 前黄 or Qianlin 前林. The village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. The village has a population of approximately 260 people living in around 56 households. Most villagers leave the village to seek work in factories. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 is the dominant surname group, but there are also the Su 苏, the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Xu 许 and the Lin 林 households. The Xu moved to the village from Cangkou 苍口. The Lin 林氏 came from Baisha 白沙 in the mountains. 3. Village temples 1) Qianhuangjing Taipingshê 前黄境太平社 was restored in 1987. The temple is dedicated to Chifeng jiade zunhou 敕封嘉德 尊侯 (the Shêgong 社公) and Yide furen 懿德夫人 (the Shêma 社妈), Jingong daren 金公大人, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. On the left are Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the right are Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Sanxingtang 三星堂 branched off from the Kaibentang 开本堂 and is dedicated to Sanjiao xiansheng 三教先生, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the recently married young men of the village carry a sedan chair with Jingong dare 金公大人, while others prepare five palm sedan chairs for Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and take them on a procession around the village. Each year two Fushou are selected by rotation to manage the festivities, and funds are collected on a per capita basis to pay for opera. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/13: The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is held in the home of the Fushou. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/15: The celebration of Jiade zunhou 嘉德尊侯 and Yide furen 懿德夫人. 8/23: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 9/15: The celebration of Jingong daren 金公大人. Because the village is small, on most birthday celebrations of the gods only offerings are set out, and opera is not performed. Usually opera is performed once on 11/25 for all the gods. 
V586 Xipo 西坡 1. Village settlement Xipo was originally called Qianpu 前埔. The village belongs to the Canglin administrative village region 苍林行政村. The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Liang 梁 surname group is the dominant one. There are also four households surnamed Chen 陈 and two households surnamed Huang 黄. The Liang came to Xipo from Hushi 笏石. They are divided into seven branches. There used to be a Liang ancestral hall in which the spirit tablet of the founding ancestor Master Dexing was worshipped, but it has been torn down. The Liang are now in their fifteenth generation. Behind the village at the edge of the mountains is the tomb of Liang Puyao 梁普耀, a leader of the Three in One in the late Qing and Republican period. He is worshipped alongside Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the Three in One temple in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Xipojing Huangan xishê 西坡境黄安西社 branched off from the ancient Huangan shê altar 古黄安社. The main gods are Shuigou shengwang 水沟圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 (locally referred to as shiwuma 十五妈). Right altar: Yugong yuanshuai 余公元帅 and Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军. The temple preserves an inscription copied from the temple gazetteer stating that the temple was rebuilt and endowed with land in the Qing dynasty by Liang Shitong 梁士通 and Liang Wenrong 梁文融, and was rebuilt again in Qing Tongzhi 8 (1869), then was restored in 1917 and again renovated in 1948. Then in 1951 all the gods were destroyed, but in 1982 the god statues were recarved, and in 1992 the temple was restored once more. 2) Xipojing Xianxingdian 西坡境显兴殿 is dedicated to Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3) Juebentang 觉本堂 was built by Liang Puyao 梁普耀 and restored in 1937. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 4) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 5) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 105 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 go on a procession to each household in the village, returning to the temple on the afternoon of 1/12. A single Daoist master is invited to recite scriptures and conduct rites. The doors of the temple are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation. Two hold the incense burners, and the other two hold the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2 or 2/3: A general celebration of the gods 文武诸神 is held and opera is performed for two or three days. 10/15: Xiayuan lanpen pudu 下元兰盆普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by the Three in One Scripture Masters of the Juebentang. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no spirit mediums or Daoists, but over half the village has been initiated into the Three in One religious movement. 
A128 Anminqijing (Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance) 安民七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Anmin is located in the foothills of the Nang Mountain 囊山 and draws its water for irrigation primarily from the Jiufeng dam 九峰三坝 and the Lin Reservoir 林塘 and the Chongqin Reservoir 冲沁塘. In the Ming, the village of Qinxin 冲沁村 was settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Dongxu 东徐, Houlin 厚林, Qianzhai 前宅, Donglin 东林, Nanpu 南埔, Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 divided off. This area wasAnmin sevenfold ritual alliance part of the Yishandongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) of Yanshouli subcanton 延寿里. Currently, these villages are managed by five Administrative Villages: Qindong 沁东, Qinxi 沁西, Nanlin 南林, Dongshang 东南 and Xilin 西林行政村. The Anmingong 安民宫 temple, located in Qindong 沁东 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. The main gods are Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year with an intercalary seventh lunar month Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Anmingong 安民宫 goes on a procession through all the villages in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold alliance or Anmin was part of the white banner alliance. 
V587 Qindong 沁东 1. Village settlement The population of Qindong is over 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods called Xincuo 新厝 and Jiucuo 旧厝. The irrigation for the fields comes mostly from the Liuzhuangtan 刘庄潭 irrigation system. Agriculture is highly developed. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 surname group are the main surname groups in the village. There are also the Xu 徐 and the Zhang 张 surname groups in the village. The Yao moved to Qindong from Xincentou 新岑头 in Fuqing 福清 in the mid-Ming. The Yao of Tangtou 塘头 were from Qindong. Other Yao in Putian city, Xianyou county and Xitianwei 西天尾 township all recognize the Yao of Qindong as their ancestors. 3. Village temples 1) Anmingong 安民宫 contains the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社 and is the main overall temple of the Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance七境总宫. The temple was restored in Qing Daoguang 19 (1839), Tongzhi 1 (1862), Guangxu 17 (1891), and in 1981. The main gods are Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Anling shengwang 安灵圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Wudangdian 武当殿 was built in Guangxu 25 (1899) and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Tian daren 田大人, and Ma daren 马大人. 3) Fenglaidian 凤来殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Huangshi xianfei 黄氏仙妃. 4) Yutiandong 雨田洞 was built in 1964 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Deyitan 德义坛 was built in 1947 and is a center for the spirit medium tanban 坛班 altar association. 6) Qingyuanan 清源庵 was built in 1917 (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, Anmingong 安民宫 welcomes back its gods from heaven 接神. On 1/15, Jiucuo 旧厝 invites the gods of Anmingong 安民宫 to go on a procession though their territory. On 1/16, Xincuo 新厝 invites the gods of Anmingong 安民宫 to go on a procession though their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Jiucuo branch 旧厝房. 4/17: The celebration of Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 5/19: The celebration of Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神 is organized by the village as a whole. 6/15: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the village as a whole. Each year with an intercalary seventh month, there is a procession of the god throughout the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. 10/19: The celebration of Anling shengwang 安灵圣王 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Both the 安民宫 and the Deyitan 德义坛 maintain tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and have conducted guanjie 关 戒 spirit medium training sessions in the past. Each year Xincuo 新厝 and Jiucuo 旧厝 separately select Fushou 福首 by rotation based on age. 
V588 Qinxi 沁西 1. Village settlement The village of Qinxi has a population of approximately 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, Dingjiang 顶江 and Xiajiang 下江. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Tiegoutan 铁沟潭 irrigation system. Agriculture is highly developed. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 are the dominant surname group. There are also the Xu 徐 and the Zhang 张 minor surname groups. The Yao are related to those living in Qindong 沁东. 3. Village temples 1) Qinyuanjing Xingxianshê 沁园境兴贤社 includes the Beichendian 北辰殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公圣侯, Qiongcang tiandi 穹苍天地, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Jin zhongjun 金中军. 2) Chongqinjing Zhenwudian 冲沁境真武殿 includes the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, and Song zhongjun 宋中军. 3) Chongxingtan 重兴坛 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Xiangyundian 祥云殿 is dedicated to Yuansheng daren 袁圣大人. 5) Mingshandian 名山殿 is dedicated to Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅. 6) Fuzhentan 福珍坛 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Yuanqingan Buddhist nunnery 源庆庵 (PTZJZCG, 1992:226). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Dingjiang 顶江 takes Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 on a procession around its territory. On 1/14 Xiajiang 下江 takes Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 on a procession around its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized separately by Dingjiang 顶江 and by Xiajiang 下江. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Xiajiang 下江. 4/27: The celebration of Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized separately by Dingjiang 顶江 and by Xiajiang 下江. On years with intercalary seventh lunar months, these groups participate in the procession of the Anmingong 安民宫, and carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 around the entire ritual alliance. 8/8: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. 8/23: The celebration of Yuansheng daren 袁圣大人 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. 8/29: The celebration of Song zhongjun 宋中军 is organized by Xiajiang 下江. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Beichendian 北辰殿, the Zhenwudian 真武殿, the Chongxingtan 重兴坛, and the Fuzhentan 福珍坛 all have spirit mediums 神童, but there are no formal training sessions. Each year Dingjiang 顶江 and Xiajiang下江 separately select Fushou 福首 in rotation by age to take responsibility for the rituals of the year. 
V589 Dongxu 东徐 1. Village settlement Dongxu village belongs to the Qindong Administrative Village 沁东行政村 The current population of the village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups There are two main surname groups, the Xu 徐 and the Li 李. 3. Village temples Dongxujing Jixianqianzhongshê 东徐境集贤前中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 the villagers takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening, there are linked lantern processions, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 possesses a spirit medium 神童 and transmits messages via spirit writing with planchette 扶乩. 
V590 Nanpu 南埔 1. Village settlement Nanpu village belongs to the Dongnan Administrative Village 东南行政村. The current village population is over 700 people. The main livelihood is farming, although some villagers have left to do construction work or to pursue commerce. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village including the Tang 唐, Fang 方, Lian 连, Cai 蔡, and Ruan 阮. 3. Village temples 1) Nanpujing Xingxianshê 南埔境兴贤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Anling shenggong 安灵圣公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Jiulindong 九霖洞 is dedicated to Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 (a Daoist companion of Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩, founder of the Three in One). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 the gods are carried over a fire and return to the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. Marionette plays are performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita and per household basis, along with voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups There are five spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Usually they undergo guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions that last for 1–4 days. There were such sessions held in 1985 for three days and in 1990 for three days. With the exception of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Anling shenggong 安灵圣公, all the other gods possess spirit mediums 神童. 
V591 Dongzhu 东珠 1. Village settlement Dongzhu village belongs to the Dongnan administrative village .东南行政村. The current village population is 670 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 and the Zhuang 庄 are the dominant surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 is connected to the Xinglongan 兴隆庵. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Luban xianshi 鲁班先师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Gongying tongzi 供应童子. 2) Yanniangong 延年宫 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead a procession through the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/20–30 a fengjin 奉金 ritual is performed, for which Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 4/12: The celebration of Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held and opera is performed for two days. 
V592 Houlin 后林 1. Village settlement Houlin village belongs to the Xilin Administrative Village 西林行政村. The village population is approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups Kang 康 and Guo 郭 are the major surnames, while Weng 翁, Lin 林, Li 李, Wang 王, Zhuang 庄, and Zheng 郑 are minor surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Lilinjing Fuchenggong 荔林境阜成宫 contains the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Qiye 七爷, and Baye 八爷. 2) Jiyundian 极云殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the villagers take Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Kanggong shenghou 康公圣侯 in sedan chairs on a procession around the village. They fire-walk before returning to the temple. Opera is performed for two to three days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V593 Xizhai 西宅 1. Village settlement Xizhai village belongs to the Xilin Administrative Village 西林行政村. The village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Kang 康 are the major surname group, while the Huang 黄, the Xiao 肖, the Xu 许, and the Zhuang 庄 are all minor surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xizhaijing Wudanggong 西宅境武当宫 contains the altar of the Jinfushê 进福社, and was built in 1924. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Fuxingdong 福兴洞 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers take Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village, who take part in the Cangkou 苍口 and other village caihua 采花 “picking flowerflames” performances (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). 
V594 Xiashanglin 下上林 1. Village settlement Xiashanglin village belongs to the Nanlin Administrative Village 南林行政村. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, the Nanpai 南牌 and the Beipai 北牌. The population of Xiashanglin is over 1000 people. The main livelihood comes from growing longyan 龙眼树 (dragon eye) fruit trees. Beipai 北牌 has over 200 Christians. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 are the main surname group of Nanpai 南牌 with over 600 people. The Xu 许 are the main surname group in Beipai 北牌 with over 400 people. There are also the Chen 陈 with some twenty households. The Li 李 moved to Xiashanglin from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Xu 许 came from Jiangxi 江西, and are divided into three lineage branches known as Fu 福, Lu 禄, and Shou 寿. The Xu have an ancestral hall in the village 祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglinshengjing Shanglin nanshê 上林胜境上林 南社 belongs to Nanpai 南牌. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jiuchan dashen 纠察大神, and Jiutian shangdi 九天上帝. 2) Shanglin shengjing Xingxian zushê 上林胜境兴贤祖社 belongs to Beipai 北牌. This temple was originally the Xu lineage ancestral hall 许氏祠堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11Beipai 北牌 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through its part of the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao They place Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is palm sedan chair and carry him in a procession around their territory. On 1/12 Nanpai 南牌 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through its territory to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Nanpai 南牌 take Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heihu dachen 黑虎大臣 on a procession around their territory. On 2/1 Nanpai 南牌 and Beipai 北牌 separately hold fengjin 奉金 rituals, and invite Daoist ritual masters form Houlin 后林 to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/12: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by Beipai 北牌. 3/14: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by Nanpai 南牌. 8/15: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is organized by Beipai 北牌. 8/28: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 is organized by Nanpai 南牌. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation depending on their age. Dingshanglin 顶上林 1. Village settlement Dingshanglin belongs to the Nanlin Administrative Village 南林行政村. The population of Dingshanglin is 216 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the dominant surname group. There are also the two surnames of Ke 柯 and Cai 蔡. The Huang moved to Dingshanglin from Huangxia 黄霞 in the Ming. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglin shengjing Xingxian xishê 上林胜境兴贤 西社 is linked to the Jishanmiao 集善庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 2) Shanglin’an 上林庵 belongs to the four villages of Dingshanglin 顶上林, Xiashanglin 下上林, Dongzhu 东珠, and Huibi 灰壁, and is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. The gods go on procession throughout the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to perform rituals on the birthday celebrations of the gods. 
V596 Donglin 东林 1. Village settlement Donglin village belongs to the Nanlin administrative village 南林行政村. Donglin was probably established in the Ming. The current population is over 220 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname group has over 150 people. The Zhou 周 have over 70 people. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and have divided into three lineage branches. The Zhou came from Huangshi Qingpu 黄石清浦 and have divided into two lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Donglinjing Xingxian beishê 东林境兴贤北社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 are taken on a procession through the village. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation based on age. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to perform rituals on the birthday celebrations of the gods. 
A129 (
V597 Yupo ershê (Yupo two shê ritual alliance) 喻坡二社 Yupo 喻坡) 1. Village settlement Yupo 喻坡 was originally called Yucuo 喻厝. The village is located in the foothills of the Nangshan mountain 囊山. The main source of irrigation is from the Jiufeng sanba 九峰三坝 (three dams on the Nine Peaks). This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/ defense unit) of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. Yupo village was already settled in the early Qing. Currently the village population is approximately 1500 people. The village is managed by the Nanlin Administrative Village 南 林行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê ritual associations, the Shangshê and the Xiashê 上下二社. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the two shê alliance of Yupo was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Yu 喻, Chen 陈 and Fang方. The Yu are said to have moved here from Jiangxi 江西, and have lived in the village for eight generations. They are divided into seven lineage branches 七房, and their lineage genealogy is kept in Shangyu 上喻 near Hangjiang 涵江. The Chen moved here from Kuokou 阔口near Putian city, and are divided into four lineage branches 四房. The Fang moved from Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village Temples 1) Yupojing zhongxiangong 喻坡境重贤宫 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong xianfei 杨氏仙妃 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Xinxianshê 新贤社, Xingantang 兴安堂 is the Xiashê 下社, and belongs to the Yu lineage 喻. The temple was repaired in 1981. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with secondary gods Langong yuanshuai 蓝公元帅 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xinxianshê 兴贤社 is the Shangshê 上社 and belongs to the Chen 陈 and the Fang 方 surnames. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with secondary gods Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenwu zhushen文武诸神. 4) Yuanbentang 源本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. Yupo two shê ritual alliance 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records ten initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Upper and Lower shê (Shang, Xia) 上, 下二社 each separately take the incense burners of their shê altars to each of their households to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao), and then use palm sedan chairs to carry miniature versions of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Yangshi xianfei 杨氏仙妃, Dutong yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and other gods of the assorted gods of the five altars (Wutan liesheng) 五坛列圣 on a procession around the entire village. Each household goes to the temple to light their lanterns and Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual groups There are four spirit mediums 神童. Daoist ritual masters present them with spirit officials 赐功曹, but there has not been any guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions 
A130 (
V598 Tangxi sanjia (Tangxi three jia ritual alliance) 塘西三甲 Tangxi 塘西) 1. Village settlement Tangxi is located on the western side of the Jieyang Reservoir 塘颉洋塘. This area was part of the Yishandongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton). This village was already settled in the Qing, and currently the population is approximately 2400 people. The village is managed by the Tangxi Administrative Village 塘西行政村. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage and settlement into three jia ritual associations: Dingjia 顶甲, Xiajia 下甲 and Houpai 后牌三甲. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three jia alliance of Tangxi was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The four main surname groups of the village are the Chen 陈, Li李, Wu 吴 and the Jiang 蒋. The Chen moved here from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and are mostly living in Houpai 后牌. The Li 李, Wu 吴 and Jiang 蒋 live mostly in Dingjia 顶甲 and Xiaji 下甲. Tangxi three jia ritual alliance 3) Village temples 1) Tangxijing Fuangong Chongxingshê 塘西境 福安宫重兴社 is the main temple of the Tangxi three jia ritual alliance 塘西三甲总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Tangxijing jieshuidong 塘西境颉水洞 belongs to Houpai后牌. The main god is Yilieqiansui 伊烈千岁. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Magong daren 马公大人, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Dong jiangjun 董将军 and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Tangxishengjing jietang lishê xunguangmiao 塘西胜境, 颉塘里社, 顺光庙 belongs to Dingjia 顶甲, and was built in 1947. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are secondary gods. 4) Mingjufu 明竹府 belongs to Xiajia 下甲, and is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Longgong yuanshuai 龙宫元帅, Sanwei dama 三位大妈, Sanwei xiannü 三位仙女, Zhou dashen 周大神, Jin dashen 金大神 and Zhu dashen 朱大神. 5) Xitang shuyuan 西塘书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 with Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 as secondary gods. 6) Jieshuige 颉水阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 as a secondary goddess. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Houpai 后牌 takes the incense burners of the Chongxingshê 重兴社香炉 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/14, Dingjia 顶甲 does the same in its own territory. On 1/15, Xiajia 下甲 also does the same in its own territory. On 1/16, the three jia ritual associations hold a collective Yuanxiao festival 三甲总元宵and carry Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 in a procession around the entire village. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Duotou to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Xiajia 下甲. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dingjia 顶甲. 4/19: The celebration of Sanwei xiannü 三位仙女 is organized by Xiajia 下甲. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Houpai 后牌. 8/20: The celebration of Yilie qiansui 伊烈千岁 is organized by Houpai 后牌. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the village as a whole. 11/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. On all of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The Jieshuidong 颉水洞 and the Mingjufu 明竹府 have altar associations 坛班 of spirit mediums, and have already completed their spirit medium trainings 关戒. Each year Fuzhou are selected in rotation on the basis of those who married first. 4/8: 
A131 (
V599 Zhuopo sanjia (Zhuopo three jia ritual alliance) 卓坡三甲 Zhuopo 卓坡) 1. Village Settlement Zhuopo was originally called Zhuopu 卓埔. The village is located at the point where the water flows out of the Jieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/ defense unit) of Yanshouli 延寿里. In the Ming the village of Putou 埔头村 was already settled in this area. In the Qing the name of this village was changed to Zhuopu 卓埔. Currently the village population is over 3000 people. The village is managed by the Zhuopo Administrative Village 卓坡 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to lineage and settlement into three jia ritual associations: Tiancen 田岑, Zhaojiao 招角 and Xiacuo 下厝三甲. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Wang 王 and the Liu 刘. There are also households of Chen 陈, Zhang 张, Dong 董, Weng 翁, Lin 林 and Huang 黄 minor surname groups. Xiacuo is a single surname settlement (Wang)下厝. The Wang moved here at the end of the Ming from Gangxia 港下 in Jiangkou 江口. The Wang have divided into three lineage branches 三房. Tiancen 田岑 is a single surname settlement (Liu) as well. The Liu have divided into three lineage branches 三房. Zhaojiao 招角 is a mixed surname neighborhood, and it is said that the residents mostly moved there during the early Qing coastal evacuations from the area “beyond the borders” 界外.Zhuopo three jia ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Yunlong shexue 云龙社学, located in Xiacuo 下厝, is the main shê altar and temple of the three jia ritual alliance 三甲祖社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Yin jiangjun 银将军. 2) Nipojing Beijidian Longxingshê 霓坡境, 北极殿, 龙兴社 is in Zhaojiao 招角, and was built in Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Tiangang yuanshuai 天罡元帅 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Xinxingshê 新兴社 divided off from Yunlong shexue 云龙社学. The temple was restored in 1957 by Overseas Chinese and in 1982 it was rebuilt again with the aid of Overseas Chinese and local donors. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, with Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 as secondary gods. 4) Shengzhongtang 省中堂, located in Xiacuo 下厝, is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 5) Zhimingtang 至明堂 in Xiacuo 下厝 is also dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, with Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 as secondary gods. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fifty-five initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Xiacuo 下厝 takes the incense burners of the Yunlongshê 云龙社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/8, Tiancen 田岑 takes the incense burners of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/9, Zhaojiao 招角 takes the incense burners of the Longxingshê 龙兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/10, the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 are carried in a procession around the village. On 1/15, the three jia ritual associations organize a collective Yuanxiao festival 三甲总元宵, and the spirit mediums of each associations 各甲神童join together for a collective procession around the village. On 2/6, the three jia 三甲 collectively distribute talismans and pray for blessings 行符祈安, and invite the spirit mediums of each village to caihua 采花 (pluck the flames—feats of imperviousness to the pain of standing bare-chested in the sparks of a massive Roman candle). Palm sedan chairs run through the streets 跑棕桥. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 龙兴社尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Longxingshê is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Tiancen 田岑. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. 5/16: The celebration of Tiangang yuanshuai 天罡元帅 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Tiancen 田岑. 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups There is an altar association 坛班 of spirit mediums, but there is no organized spirit medium training (guanjie 关戒). There is a set pool of Altar Assistants 扶童 for the Xuanxiao rites, and whoever becomes spontaneously possessed when the chanting begins is the spirit medium for that occasion. 
A132 Hanjiang ershisi pu (Hanjiang twenty-four ward ritual alliance) 涵江二十四铺 The Hanjiang city region is located at the confluence of the three great irrigation systems of the northern irrigated plain, the Mulan Weir 木兰陂, Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 and Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation systems. The Shuixin river 水心河 and the Duanming Sluice Gate 端明斗门 are located in Hanjiang 涵江. This area was part of the Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里 and included several pu (police/defense units) which were also wards and neighboring villages of the market town of Hanjiang. These include the Cantou shabanpu 仓头沙阪铺, Qianhou jiepu 前后街铺, Qingningpu 青宁铺, Xiaoyipu 孝义 铺, Jianhoupu 鑑后铺, Wutai zhongxiaopu 乌台忠孝铺, Louxiapu 楼下铺, Xinqiaotoupu 新桥头铺, Xiaxupu 下徐铺, Gongxiapu 宫下铺, Xiyuan duwei longjinpu 西园后度龙津铺, Xinpaipu 新牌铺 and Yongningpu 延宁铺. In the Ming the area of Hantoushi market 涵头市 and Houdu 后度 and Tangbei 塘北 villages were already settled. In the early Qing, this region developed into a flourishing port and market, and currently these areas have been completely transformed into city streets and apartment blocks. This region is managed by the Handong 涵东 and Hanxi 涵西 Street Management Offices 街道办事处. The temple ritual system is divided up according to traditional wards, and is referred to as the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang 二十四铺. However, currently areas of temple ritual activity are restricted to the following regions: Louxia 楼下, Baowei 保尾, Tangbei 塘北, Puwei 铺尾, Canran 苍然, Yanning 延宁, Xiaxu 霞徐 and Lindun 林墩. Many of these areas are peripheral areas of the expanding city of Hanjiang 涵江. Hanjiang twenty-four ward ritual alliance The Lijiang Chenghuangmiao 鲤江城隍庙 (City God temple) located in Jianqianpu is the central temple of the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang. This temple was first built in Qing Kangxi 5 (1666). The main god is Chenghuang dashen (the City God) 城隍大神. Each year on lunar 1/19 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang at this temple. Also, each lunar 7/15 and 10/15 a pudu ritual is held at the temple for the orphaned ghosts 祭孤仪式. Each year with an intercalary fifth month, the City God is carried in a procession through the streets of Hanjiang and to the surrounding villages. This procession and the related rituals are organized by a temple committee made up of representatives of the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang. Several stelae have been preserved at this temple, including one composed by You Keqing 游珂清 in Jiaqing 13 (1808) and entitled 重建涵江城隍庙碑记 (Stone inscription on the restoration of the Hanjiang City God Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:270, No. 235). In the Ming, the market town of Hantoushi 涵头市 was renowned for its successful examination graduates. Fourteen lineages within the town produced seventeen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and sixty-four 举人 Juren (Provincial Graduates) over the course of the Ming dynasty. The Chen 陈 produced five Jinshi 进士 and sixteen Juren 举人. The Huang 黄 produced four Jinshi 进士 and eleven Juren 举人. The Lin 林 produced one Jinshi 进士 and seven Juren 举人. The Zheng 郑produced one Jinshi 进士 and five Juren 举人. The Li 李 produced two Jinshi 进士and three Juren 举人. The Zhang 张 and the Fang 方 each produced four Juren 举人. The Liu 刘 and the Lu 卢 each produced two Juren 二举人. The Zhu 朱 and the Gao 高 each produced one Jinshi 进士. The Xu 徐 and the Cai 蔡 each produced one Juren 举人. In Ming Zhengtong 11 (1446) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Chen lineage. In Ming Zhengtong 13 (1448) a Zhenjie 贞节牌坊 memorial archway was set up for the Lin lineage. In Ming Jingtai 7 (1456) a Yingkui 应奎牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Qiu 邱 lineage. In Ming Chenghua 2 (1466), a Hanjiang shuyuan 涵江书院 memorial archway was set up. In Ming Chenghua 3 (1467) a Buyu 步玉牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Chen 陈 lineage. In Ming Chenghua 13 (1477) the Chen lineage was again honored with a Kuibi lianhui 奎璧联 辉牌坊 memorial arch. In Ming Chenghua 19 (1483) the Chen were honored once again with a Zhejie memorial arch 贞节牌坊. In Ming Hongzhi 12 明弘治 (1499) the Qiu were again honored with a Jinshi memorial arch 进士牌坊. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of Yanning 延宁 and Baowei 保尾 were part of the white banner alliance while Xiaxupu 下徐铺 was part of the white banner alliance. Louxia 楼下 1. Village settlement Louxia was originally called Liuxia 刘下, and is located along the side of the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. 2. Surname groups Louxia was originally settled by the Liu 刘, but later became a mixed surname residential area, administered by the Hanxi Street Affairs Committee 涵西街道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Longloushê 龙楼社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 a lantern festival is organized along the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 6/24: The celebration of Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V601 Baowei 保尾 1. Village settlement Baowei was originally called Banwei 坂尾 and was part of the Shatou Cangban Pu town ward 沙头苍坂铺. Baowei was a village at the southwest edge of Hanjiang which has now been absorbed into the city and is administered by the Hanxi Street Office 涵西街道办事处. 2. Surname groups Due to urbanization, it is difficult to track the movement of surname groups in this area. 3. Village/ward temples 1) Shaban lishê 沙坂里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. 2) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 3) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Tianxianfu 天仙府 is dedicated to Huang jiangjun 黄将军. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Lianguian 莲桂庵 is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 6) Fulingong 绂麟宫 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, San furen 三夫 人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 7) Zhixintang 志心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Others worshipped include Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jiutian Wang dadi 九天王大帝, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Huang daren 黄大人. 8) Qingshantang Buddhist hall 庆善堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 9) Lianguiting Buddhist pagoda 连桂亭 was built in the late Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:204) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. On 1/12 the final night of Yuanxiao for this area is celebrated with a procession around the boundaries of the former village ward. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 2/10: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Fulingong 绂麟宫. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 2/26: The celebration of Jiutian Wang dadi 九天王大帝 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Huang jiangjun 黄将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 11/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific neighborhoods, or by specific temples, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. Tangbei 塘北 1. Village settlement Tangbei originally was part of the Yishan dongpu town ward 依山东铺 of Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里. 2. Surname groups Mostly the area was inhabited by families of the Yao surname group 姚. In recent times the area has become a developed area of mixed surname groups, administered by the Handong Street Office 涵东街 道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Xingeng zushê 新丰祖社 was first built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–1566). The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitiqan dasheng 齐天大圣 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. The secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2) Jingshesi Buddhist temple 精舍寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:205) 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江 (SJCDCB, 1992:7). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–11, candles 喜烛 are lit in the Xinfeng zushê 新丰祖社 and opera is performed. On 1/10, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is carried around the entire village in a procession. In the evening there is a lantern procession, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/15: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V603 Puwei 铺尾 1. Village settlement Puwei belonged to the Xinpai Pu town ward 新牌铺. Now Puwei village is managed by the Handong Street Affairs Office 涵东街 道办事处. The population of Puwei is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups There are several surnames in Puwei including the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘, the Kang 康, the Guo 郭, the Lin 林, and the Zhou 周. The Chen are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longjin zumiao 龙津祖庙 is dedicated to Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 and to Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Secondary gods include Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Linshui furen 临水夫人, and Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师. 2) Longjin wenming zushê 龙津文明祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Huye 虎爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/18: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held with three days of opera. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Linshui furen 临水夫人 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/16: The celebration of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is held. 9/13: The celebration of Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师 is held. 12/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups The Longjin zumiao 龙津祖庙 has a temple management committee 董事会. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V604 Cangran 苍然 1. Village settlement Canran was originally part of the Cangqianpu 仓前铺 ward of Hanjiang town 涵江. This area of the town is administered by the Handong Street Management Office 涵东街道办事处. 2. Surname groups This area was primarily inhabited by people of the Chen surname 陈, but now has a mixed surname population. 3. Village temples 1) Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 is also called the Chenyinggong Memorial Hall 陈应功纪念馆. The temple was rebuilt in 1994 on the site of the former Shengyunmiao 盛云庙 temple. The main god is Baosheng dadi 保生大帝, with Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/22 the gods of Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 are carried around the ritual territory while opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/14: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V605 Yanning 延宁 1. Village settlement Yanning belonged to the Yanning Pu (town ward) 延宁铺 in the past. Now Yanning is administered by the Handong Street Affairs office 涵东街道办事处. The population is unknown. 2. Surname groups There are Lin 林, Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑 surnames living in Yanning. The Lin are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yanninggong 延宁宫 contains the altar of the Xinyishê 新义社 which was built in Ming Jiajing 41 (1562) and rebuilt in 1922.The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Chongfudian 崇福殿 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Yuhuatang 玉华堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 7 lists 230 initiates. 4) Yonglinan Buddhist temple 涌林庵 was built during Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 5) ShishanBuddhist temple 石善寺 was built during Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:205). 6) Qingdetang Buddhist hall 清德堂 was built during Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZCG, 199:205). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Other subsidiary temples come to Yanning to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with three days of opera. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Yanninggong 延宁宫 has a temple management committee 董事会. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V606 Xiaxu 霞徐 1. Village settlement Xiaxu originally belonged to the Xiaxupu 霞徐铺 (town ward). Now Xiaxu is part of the Hanjiang urban area, and the population is unknown. Xiaxu is divided into five jing 五境 (territories) Xiaming 霞明, Xinlin 新林, Duanming 端明, Dingjie 顶街, and Longdong 龙东. The village preserves the temple inscription composed in Daoguang 9 (1829) by Lin Daoheng 林道亨 entitled 重建昭应宫记 Records of the Restorations to the Temple of Brilliant Responses (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:301, No. 265). 2. Surname groups Many surnames live together in this area, but the Chen 陈 are the predominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingrenshê 兴仁社 is within the Shunjimiao 顺济庙 and the Yulingong 毓麟宫. These temples are referred to as the Xiaxugong 霞徐宫, and it is the main temple of the five ritual territories of Xiaxu 五境 总宫. A official stele 示禁碑 dated in Qing Jiaqing 12 (1807) is preserved in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Several stelae relating to the Hanjiang Tianhougong were originally preserved in this temple, but some were later moved to the Hanjiang Stelae Garden. The stone inscriptions about this temple include the Qianlong 15 (1750) 敕封护国庇民弘仁普济天后圣母东甌香灯 文 (Proclamation on the incense and lamp-oil --- --- --- of the eastern hall of the temple of the imperially enfeoffed Divine Matron, Empress of Heaven, who universally saves, extends her mercy, protects the people, and guards the nation) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:231, No. 201), the Qianlong 28 (1763) 兴安会馆香灯会碑记 (Stele recording the Incense and Lamp Association of the Xingan Native place Association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:244, No. 210), the Jiaqing 12 (1807) 涵江天后宫奉宪示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions by imperial decree within the Hanjiang Temple of the Empress of Heaven) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:269, No. 234), and the Guangxu 2 (1876) 重修兴安会馆碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Xinghua native-place association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:331, No. 296). 2) Tianfeigong 天妃宫 is called the old temple, Jiugong 旧宫, and is said to have been founded in the Southern Song. A Ming stele with a star chart 星 图 and early Qing murals 清初壁画 survive in the temple. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sihai longwang 四 海龙王, and Yangong 晏公. 3) Yidetang Buddhist hall 义德堂 was built in the late Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 4) Jituoshan Buddhist temple 即陀山 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Tianfeigong 天妃宫 which takes Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession around the entire region. Opera is performed for three days. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 9/30: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Three days of opera are performed. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by a specific temple, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups Each year each of the five ritual territories 五境 draw divination sticks to select one Fushou 福首 each. On 7/19 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Middle Prime is held and on 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are also held. 
V607 Lindun 林墩 1. Village settlement Lindun originally belonged to Gongxiapu (town ward) 宫下铺. Now Lindun belongs to the Lindun administrative village area 林墩行政村. The population of Lindun is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups There are Lin 林, Fang 方, and Lu 卢 surname groups in Lindun, but the Lin are the dominant group. 3. Village temples Cangranjing Aoshanshê 苍然境鳌山社 is linked to the Mingdetang 明德堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Jixiang jiangjun 吉祥将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 records 475 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 people take part in Gongxia’s 宫下 Yuanxiao procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with ten days of opera. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups The initiates of the Three in One temple 三一教门 in the village make up the majority of the village population. Each year they go to the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 to present incense 进香. 
A133 Gangtou sancun (Gangtou three village ritual alliance) 港头三村 The three village ritual alliance of Gangtou is located hear the Xingangtou Sluice-gate 新港斗门 on the southwest edge of Hanjiang city. This area was part of the Gangtoupu 港头铺, Qianlinou 前林铺 and Tianwei pu 田尾铺 police/defense units of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Xingang 新港 was settled. In the early Qing this village branched off into Gangtou 港头, Qianlin 前林 and Tianwei 田尾. These villages are now managed by the Hanxi Administrative Village 涵西行政村. The Taishifu 太师府 temple, located in Gangwei 港尾 village, is the main temple of the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Each year on lunar 1/18 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated, and the three villages hold a joint procession of the gods. 
V608 Gangtou 港头 1. Village settlement The village of Gangtou has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Longgangjing xinyoushê 龙港境新有社 is dedicated to Zhunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and the patron of Gangtou three village ritual alliance the temple, Tanyuezhu ZhenYiji 檀越主郑颐吉. Wen Tianxiang 文天祥 is said to have written the characters giving the name of the temple. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18, the villagers of Gangtou join with Tianwei 田尾 and Qianlin 前林 in a joint procession. Spirit mediums 神 童 are possessed by the gods. On 2/6, spirit mediums are invited from nearby villages to carry out the fire gathering ritual 采花仪式 (feats of imperviousness to pain as demonstrated by standing bare-chested in the flames of a massive Roman candle). Opera is performed for three days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of the Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 9/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V609 Tianwei 田尾 1. Village settlement The village of Tianwei has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Wu 吴, Wang 王, Huang 黄, Lin 林 and Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Longtianjing xingxianshê 龙田境兴贤社, Taishifu 太师府, is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. This is the main temple of the three village alliance (see above). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the villagers of Tianwei join with those of Gangtou 港头and Qianlin 前林 in a joint procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with two days of opera. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V610 Qianlin 前林 1. Village settlement The village of Qianlin has approximately 500 residents. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are Zheng 郑, Chen陈, Guo 郭 and Li 李. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected according to lineage in rotation to direct the ritual activities of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing xinyishê, Tianhougong 钱江境新义 社天后宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin Shenghou 金圣侯, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the villagers of Qianlin join with those of Gangtou 港头 and Tianwei 田尾 in the collective celebration of Yuanxiao, and in a common procession of the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two days of opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 10/17: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Four fushou 福首 are selected in rotation according to surname group each year. 
A134 Tiancuo wucun (Tiancuo five village ritual alliance) 田厝五村 The Tiancuo five village ritual alliance is located at the central node of the irrigation system connecting Hanjiang 涵江 to Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. This area was part of the Tiancuopu 田厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the early Qing, this area was divided into “seven mounds”, and it currently includes the five villages of Zhanggongdun 张公墩, Sudun 苏墩, Ludun 卢墩, Weicuo 尾厝, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. The Xinxingshê 新兴社 temple, located in Zhanggongdun 张公墩, is the founding shê of the Seven Mounds 七墩祖社, while the Qixing zumiao 齐 兴租庙 temple in Sudun 苏墩 village is the main temple of the five village ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the villages of the alliance goes to the Xinxingshê to present incense 进香 and invite the gods 请神. On lunar 1/6, the Wu daren 伍大人 and Sun daren 孙大人 of Qixing zumiao 齐兴祖庙 are carried in a procession around the five villages of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the five villages of Tiancuo were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V611 Zhanggongdun 张公墩 1. Village settlement Zhanggongdun belongs to the Lindun Administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 180 people. 2. Surname groups The are five surname groups, the Hu 胡, the Lin 林, the Zhou 周, the Zhang 张, and the Lu 卢. The Hu are the dominant surname. Tiancuo five village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Qiongtianjing Xinxingshê 琼田境新兴社 is shared with Sudun 苏墩, Ludun 卢墩, Weicuo 尾厝, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. The temple was built in 1888, and was restored in 1982 and again in 2002. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Jishanci 积善祠 is dedicated to Liu daren 刘大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Each of the partner villages comes to present incense 进香. Movies are shown at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/8: The celebration of Liugong daren 刘公大人 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera and Daoist masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held, and marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. Each year new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
V612 Sudun 苏墩 1. Village settlement Sudun village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The two surnames are Su 苏 and Yu 俞. The Su are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples Qiongtianjing Qixing zumiao 琼田境齐兴祖庙 was built in the early Qing dynasty. The main gods are Wu daren 伍大人, Zhang daren 张大人, Sun daren 孙大人, and Zhu daren 朱大人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Peng tongzi 彭童子, and Fu tongzi 傅童子. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, Wu daren 伍大人 and Sun daren 孙大人 are taken on a procession through the entire ritual alliance. On 1/16, the villagers also go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The celebration of Wu daren 伍大人 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of the Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 is held, and opera is sponsored for a day in rotation with the other villages in the alliance. 9/15: The celebration of Sun daren 孙大人 is held with two days of opera, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups The Qixing zumiao 齐兴祖庙 has five spirit mediums 神童五人, and has completed a full series of guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held, and marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. Each year three new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
V613 Weicuo 尾厝 1. Village settlement Weicuo village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 80 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surnames in the village, the Su 苏 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Qiongtianjing Xinglongmiao 琼田境兴龙庙 is shared by all the villages in the ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qiongtianjing Beijidian 琼田境北极殿 was built in recent years and belongs to all the villages in the ritual alliance. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 goes on a procession through all the villages of the alliance. On 1/16, the villagers go to Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, together with Ludun 卢墩village, and opera is performed for one day. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V614 Ludun 卢墩 1. Village settlement Ludun village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups Everyone is surnamed Lu 卢. 3. Village temples Tudimiao 土地庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held together with Weicuo 尾厝, and one day of opera is performed. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V615 Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement Tianzhongyang village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups Everyone is surnamed Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Daxingmiao 大兴庙 and Dongyuedian 东岳殿 is dedicated to Zhuzheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 villagers go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. On 1/17 Zhuzheng dadi 注生大帝 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are taken on a procession around all the villages in the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Each year three new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
A135 Tangtou qijing (Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance) 塘头七境 The Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance is located on the eastern side of the Jieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Tangtou dongtingpu 塘头洞庭铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 延兴里. In the early Qing, the villages of Tangtou 塘头 and Shenpu 沈埔 were settled. Currently, the villages of this area are managed by the following Administrative Village committees: Sangu 三股, Gangli 巷利, Xinpu 新坡, Huangcuo 黄厝, Tanwei 潭尾 and Houyang 后洋行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. The Fuxingshê 福兴社 and the connected Fuxinggong 福兴宫, located in Tangwei 塘尾 village, is the central temple 总宫 of the Tangtou sevenfold alliance. Additional sets of the statues of the main gods of each of the sevenTangtou sevenfold ritual alliance she-altars of the allied ritual territories are also worshipped in the main temple, and each shê organizes offerings, rituals, and opera at the main temple on the birthdays of their own gods. During the Yuanxiao festivities, each of these villages goes to the main temple to invite its gods back to their village. On 2/2 a general Yuanxiao is held. The main temple has spirit mediums who are possessed by each of the gods of the seven shê. They have held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions repeatedly, in 1983, 1986, 1999, 1993, and in 2002. Houyang village’s 后洋村 Beishê (north she) 北社 was originally part of the ritual alliance, but nowadays it has separated off from the main temple, and does not take part in the rituals activities of the alliance. The Fuxinggong preserves a stele composed in Jiaqing 23 (1818) by Li Mingding 李铭鼎 entitled 重建颉塘福兴宫碑 (Stele on the rebuilding of the Rising Wealth Temple of Jietang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:293, No. 256). In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Tangtou was part of the black banner alliance. 
V616 Sangu 三股 1. Village settlement Sangu village has a population of approximately 2000 people, and is divided in three neighborhoods, the Shang, Zhong, and Xiashê 上, 中下社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑 with 800 people, the 陈 with 700 people, and the Feng 冯 with 300人 people. The Zheng moved to Sangu in the Song dynasty from Baisha 白沙 in Putian 莆田. The Chen moved to Sangu in the Ming from Yongchun 胡洋 Huyang 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshangshê, zhongshê, and xiashê 湖东境福兴上社, 中社, 下社, are all within the Xingyundian 兴云殿. The temple was rebuilt in 1984. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Zhongjun 中军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Xingtinggong 兴亭宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 3) Miaodayun 妙大云 belongs to the seven-shê alliance of Tangtou, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhongben shuyuan 中本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Sangu villagers go to the Fuxinggong in 福兴宫 Tangwei to invite Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Zhongjun 中军 to go on a procession through their village territory. Opera is performed for two to three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Sangu participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed. 6/10: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/21: The celebration of Zongjun 中军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/25: The celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 9/20: The celebration of Dage 大哥 and Erge 二哥 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Sangu participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three shê of Sangu select Fushou 福首 to rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V617 Xinpo 新坡 1. Village settlement Xinpo was originally called Shenpu 沈埔. Xinpo village has a population of over 3000 people. The main livelihood is tile making and labor in the kilns. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. The are also the Zhang 张 and the Yi 蚁 minor surname groups. The Zheng moved to Xinpo from Qiandai in Putian city 前埭, and have divided into five lineage branches. There is a Zheng lineage ancestral house 郑氏祖厝 in Xinpo. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing nanshê 湖东境福兴南社 is inside the Xinpotang (also called the Ruiyundian) 新坡堂(瑞云殿) the main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Lushi furen 卢氏夫人. 2) Xunzhong shuyuan 顺中书院 was rebuilt in 2006 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, and Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 95 initiates. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Xinpo goes to the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invited Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 back to the village to go on a procession, while opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xinpo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/22: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Lushi furen 卢氏夫人 is held. 6/16: The celebration of Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xinpo has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual specialists of whom four are Daoist masters. Xinpo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year each lineage branch selects the Fushou 福首 who will rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V618 Xiangli 巷利 1. Village settlement Xiangli is also know as Hanli 汉利. Gangli has a population of over 1200 people. The village was founded in the Ming dynasty. The main livelihood comes from working in the tile kiln factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Huang 黄, who came from Huangxiang 黄巷, and have divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing lishê, Maolinyuan 湖东境福兴 利社, 茂林园. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Chengong zushi 陈公祖师. 2) Shuntian shuyuan 顺天书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, and Taihuashan 泰华山. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records twenty-eight initiates. 3) Pingtianci 平天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Chengong zushi 陈公祖师. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records thirty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Xiangli goes to Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, and Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君 back to the village to go on a procession. Opera is performed for two days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xiangli participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Marionette plays are performed. 8/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Gangli participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three lineage branches select the Fushou 福首 by rotation according to age. On 10/15 the 下元普渡 xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V619 Tanwei 潭尾 1. Village settlement Tanwei has a population of approximately 1800 people. The main livelihood is working in tile kilns and factories. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yang 杨 and the Wu 吴. The Yang moved to Tanwei from Sangu 三股 and have formed three lineage branches. There is a Yang ancestral hall 杨氏祠堂. The Wu moved from Daili 埭里 and have formed two lineage branches. There is a Wu ancestral chamber 吴氏祖厅. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshê, Fuxinggong 湖东境福兴社, 福兴宫 is the main temple of the Tangtou seven-shê alliance 塘头七社总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Zhonglie (Tiangong) yuanshuai 忠烈(田公)元帅, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Hudongjing Fuxing xishê 湖东境福兴西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Shundetang 顺德堂 contains the altar of Fuxing xishê 福兴西社. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 4) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 109 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Tanwei villagers go to the Fuxinggon 福兴宫 to invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 to go on a procession through the village. Opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Tanwei participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tanwei participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year the lineage branches select the Fushou 福首 by rotation according to age. 
V620 Huangcuo 黄厝 1. Village settlement Huangcuo has a population of approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is working in kilns and tile factories. 2. Surname groups The only surname is the Huang 黄, who moved from Huangxiang 黄巷 and have divided into four lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjin Fuxiingdongshê 湖东境福兴东社 is within the Yuxingtang 玉兴堂. The temple was rebuilt in 1984 and the main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Guigu xianshi 鬼谷仙师, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 115 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Huangcuo villagers go to Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 back to the village to go on a procession. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist masters conduct a pinganjiao 平安醮. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Huangcuo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held 8/15: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Huangcuo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. On 10/15 the 下元普渡 xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V621 Houyang 后洋 1. Village settlement The population of Houyang village is approximately 2000 people. The main livelihood is brick and tile making. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 surname group is dominant. They moved to Houyang from Chongqin 冲沁, and have divided into the following four lineage branches: Dacheng 大埕, Gongbian 宫边, Weicuo 尾厝, and Houcuo 后厝. 3. Village temples 1) Houyangjing Hudong beishê 后洋境湖东北社 is within the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Sijiang zhenren 司鉴真人. 2) Shiyitang 师义堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records seventy-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each household to xing dao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, the gods of Fuxinggong 福兴宫 are taken on a procession around the village, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 7/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/15: The celebration of Sijiang zhenren 司鉴真人. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Fushou 福首 are selected, in rotation, on the basis of age. 
A136 Tangdong Sancun (Tangdong three village ritual alliance) 塘东三村 The Tangdong three village ritual alliance is located on the eastern side of the Xieyangtang 颉洋塘 Reservoir. This area was part of the Tangtou dongtingpu 塘头洞庭铺 and the Puweipu 埔尾铺 of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Tangdong 塘东 was settled. In the early Qing, this village divided into the three villages of Dongting 洞庭, Puwei 埔尾 and Linbing 林柄. These villages are managed by the Administrative Village committees of Dongting 洞庭 and Linbing 林柄行政村. The Gutang shexue 古塘社学 temple, located in Puwei 埔尾 village, was originally the founding she-altar of the three village alliance. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Formerly the three villages collectively celebrated Yuanxiao together, but currently they no longer hold joint processions and rituals. Instead, they have joined the collective procession of the Tangtou thirteen jia ritual alliance 塘头十三甲. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 2 (1822) by Huang Jingsi 黄进思 entitled 重修古塘社学碑 (Record of the restoration of the village earth god temple and school of Gutang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:296, No. 260). Tangdong three village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three villages of Tangdong were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V622 Dongting 洞庭 1. Village settlement The village of Dongting has a population of over 4000 people. The village was established in the Song dynasty. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Yao 姚, the Liu 刘, and the Xu 徐. The Yao 姚 moved to the village from Chongqin 冲沁 and have divided into six branches. There is a Yao lineage ancestral hall 姚氏宗祠. The Liu 刘 moved to the village in Qing Kangxi 25 (1686) from Aoshan 鳌山. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Huposhê 湖东境湖坡社 is merged into the Dongtinggong 洞庭宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Secondary gods include Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Wuan shengwang 武按 圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Fumo yuanshuai 伏魔元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Dong shizhe 东使者, Xi shizhe 西使者, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Chuanjing zumiao 传经祖庙( also known as the Zhanggongfu 张公府), belongs to the Liu 刘, and branched off from Aoshan 鳌山分炉. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Lidai gongma 历代公妈. 3) Huancuiting 环翠亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 迦兰. 4) Yulinfu 毓麟府 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Yuhuatang 玉华堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shijiawenfo 释伽文佛, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Lü Dongbin 吕洞宾. 6) Judetang 居德堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On ¼, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 with three days of opera. On 1/14–15, the Liu 刘 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xing dao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. On 1/15–16, the Yao 姚 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Three days of opera are performed. 4/17: The celebration of Fumo yuanshuai 伏魔元帅 is held 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. 6/26: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups In 1989 the first guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session was held, and there are now eight spirit mediums 神童. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V623 Linbin 林柄 1. Village settlement Linbin village has a population of approximately 1500 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Shangcuo 上厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. The village has already been transformed into an industrial park 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. They moved to Linbin from Putian city and have divided into ten branches. There are also the Yang 杨 and the Zheng 郑 surname groups. Originally, there were the Chen 陈 and the Gong 龚 households, but due to marriage ties they have changed their surnames to Lin. 3. Village temples 1) Yulinjing Guoanshê 玉林境国安社 is linked with the Yulingong 玉林宫. The temple was built in Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Jin jiangjun 金将军, and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built in the Republican period, and is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shengjou 金公圣侯 and Yulin shengmu 毓麟圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 and the first opera of the year 头场戏 is performed. On 1/11– 12, Shangcuo 上厝 takes Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 on a procession through its territory. At night there are linked lantern processions 圈灯, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/12–13, Xiacuo 下厝 takes Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 on a procession through its territory. At night there are linked lantern processions 圈灯, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16, the entire village celebrates a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 and the spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to caihua 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and opera is performed for three days. On 2/2, the toufu 头福 (first good fortune) rites are performed, and each household goes to the temple to worship. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. 5/3: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/13: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. All of these events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days each time, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Linbin village has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. Currently there are six spirit mediums in the village, and they have gone through guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. 
V624 Puwei 埔尾 1. Village settlement The village of Puwei has a population of approximately 700 people. The village has already been transformed into an industrial park. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Yao 姚 and the Ruan 阮. There are also Chen 陈 and Li 李 surnames in the village. The Yao 姚 moved here from Fuqing 福清, while the Ruan 阮 moved to Puwei from Putian 莆田 city. The Ruan have divided into two lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Nipojing Gutang shexue 霓坡境古塘社学 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of linked lanterns. On 1/19, the general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated 总元宵 by carrying Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 in a procession around the village. Opera is performed for three days and Daoist ritual masters conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/26: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held. A delegation goes to the Jiangkou Dongyueguan 江口东岳观 to request incense fire 香火. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole, Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Each year the Yao 姚 and the Ruan 阮 each select two Fushou 福首 in rotation based on age. There is a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their assistants. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions have been held three times. 
A137 Jindun sicun (Jindun four village ritual alliance) 金墩四村 The Yangzhong four village ritual alliance is located to the east of Hanjiang in the intermediate zone linking Hanjiang’s irrigation system to the coastal region. This area was part of the Jindun Sucuopu 金墩苏厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the village of Jindun 金墩 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Sucuo 苏厝 and Yangzhong 洋中 branched off. Currently these villages are managed by the Fangshan Administrative Village 芳山行政村. In the Xianziding 仙仔顶 neighborhood of Jindun 金墩 village there once stood the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙 temple, which is said to have been built in Song Gaozong’s reign in Shaoxing 21 (1151). This was the main temple 总宫 of Guishan 龟山 (Yangzhong 洋中), Meishan 眉山 (Sucuo 苏厝 and Zhongdun 中敦) and Jinshan 金山 (now Jindun 金墩). This temple was torn down in Qianlong 26 (1761) and divided into the three temples of Guishangong 龟山宫, Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and Jinshangong 金山宫. Jindun four village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four villages of Jindun were part of the white banner alliance. 
V625 Sucuo 苏厝 1. Village settlement Sucuo village is part of the Fangshan administrative village area 芳山行政村. The village population is over 3280 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方, the Zheng 郑, the Zeng 曾, and the Su 苏. The Fang 方 came from Hunan 湖南. The founding ancestor was an official in Youtang near Putian, and later descendants fled from pirate invasions to Sucuo village. There is a Duqingci 笃庆祠 Fang ancestral hall, and a lineage genealogy 族谱. The Zheng 郑 came from Jiaji 夹漈 and first moved to Duotou 哆头 before moving to Sucuo village. There is a Zheng ancestral hall 郑氏祠堂. The Zeng 曾 came from Sishui 泗水. The Su 苏 came from Zhuangsutian 庄苏田, and are divided into the Shangsu 上苏 and Xiasu 下苏 lineage branches. They have preserved a lineage genealogy 族谱. 3. Village temples 1) Meishanjing Zhaolinggong 眉山境昭灵宫 contains the altar of the Xinganshê 兴安社, which belongs to the Zheng 郑, Fang 方, and Zeng 曾, and the Baoguang longshoushê 葆光隆寿社, which belongs to the Su 苏 and the Zeng 曾. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, the Xinganshê 兴安社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Baoguang longshoushê 葆光隆寿社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Zhou daye 周大爷, Yang erye 杨二爷, and Huye 虎爷. 2) Shenglingmiao 声灵庙 is the center of the spirit medium tanban 坛班 altar association. Here mediums are possessed and spirit writing is transmitted by planchette. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshi gutan 天师古坛, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. The temple has an ancient altar of the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. 3) Fubentang 复本堂 belongs to the Wuben branch of the Three in One 悟本派. The main gods is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhang Tianshi 张天师. 4) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is located outside the village, and was built in Qing Guangxu period (1875–1908). The temple is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Beichengong 北辰宫 is located outside the village, and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6) Fumaci 驸马祠 is dedicated to Yufeng Yinglie shenghou 御封英烈 圣侯. Secondary gods include Yawei jiangjun 押卫将军, and Libu shilang 吏部侍郎. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭, organized by the Fang 方, and the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. On 1/6, the Fang 方take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/7, the Zeng 曾 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8, the Su 苏 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/9, the Zheng 郑 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18–19, the Shenlingmiao 神灵庙 spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession around the entire village, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. The spirit mediums 神童 of nearby villages are invited to caihua 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for four or five days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/16: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of the Baoguan longshoushê 葆光隆寿社 is organized by the Su 苏. 8/20: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinganshê 兴安社 is organized by the Zeng 曾, Zheng 郑, and Fang 方. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by neighborhood or by lineage, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are over 300 Three in One initiates in Sucuo village. The chairmen of the temple committee are a group of over twenty representatives. Over eighty people are involved in regular scripture explication and recitation. The Shenglingmiao 声灵庙 has a tanban 坛班 altar association with ten spirit mediums 神童, but they do not practice guanjie 关戒 trainings. 
V626 Zhongdun 中墩 1. Village settlement Zhongdun belongs to the Fangshan administrative village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are Zheng 郑, Zeng 曾, and Su 苏. 3. Village temples 1) Sushanjing Beichengong 苏山境北辰宫 contains the Xinzudong 新祖洞. This temple branched off from the Zhaolinggong of Sucuo 苏厝昭灵宫. At first it was only an earth god shrine next to the kilns, but in recent years it has been rebuilt and expanded. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–10, the villagers take part in Sucuo’s 苏厝 villages processions, carrying the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, the villagers again take part in Sucuo’s 苏厝 processions, and their roadways are also sealed against demonic influences 封路. They also invite Daoist masters to perform rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Zhongdun takes part in the Sucuo zhaolingong 苏厝昭 灵庙 tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their assistants. There is no practice of guanjie spirit medium training. 
V627 Jindun 金墩 1. Village settlement Jindun belongs to the Fangshan administrative village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Kang 康 surname groups in Jindun village. 3. Village temples 1) Jinshanjing Xining zushê 金山境熙宁祖社 is inside the Jinshangong 金山宫. This temple was built in Qing Qianlong 26 (1761), when it branched off from the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙. There is a stele commemorating repairs from Qing Xianfeng 10 (1860) in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (two gods), Houtu furen 后土夫人 (two gods), and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuan   shuai 康公元帅, Gegong dajiang 葛公大将, Fuhu jiangjun 伏虎将军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Wulugong 五路宫 is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 8/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 11/6: The celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Jindun has three spirit mediums 神童. There is no practice of guanjie 关戒. 
V628 Yangzhong 洋中 1. Village settlement Yangzhong village is managed by the Fangshan Administrative Village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 1200 people living in around 260 households. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Liu 刘, who came from Fuzhou 福州. The Liu ancestral tombs are in Hanjiang and there is a 1924 stele protecting the tomb site 民国十三年县知事示禁碑. 3. Village temples 1) Guishanjing Xining zushê 龟山境熙宁祖社 is inside the Guishangong 龟山宫, which is also called the Taishifu 太师府. This temple was built in Qianlong 26 (1761) when it branched off from the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Shizhe zhongjun 侍者中军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with five opera performances over three days 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with five opera performances over three days 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with two or three days of opera. 9/27: The celebration of Magong taishi 马公太师 and Tiegong taishi 铁公 太师 is held with two or three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Yangzhong has three spirit mediums 神童. There is no guanjie 关戒. 
A138 (
V629 Tiezao liujia (Tiezao six jia ritual alliance) 铁灶六甲 Tiezao 铁灶) 1. Village settlement Tiezao was originally called Qixingdun 七星墩 and Zheshan 哲山, and it was commonly referred to as the Shisanshan tiezao “十三山铁灶”. Tiezao is located in between the northern irrigated plain 北洋 and the Jiuliyang 九里洋 irrigated plain, in hilly country. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Xieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Tiezaopu 铁灶铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli subcanton 望江里. The village of Tiezao was settled in the early Qing. Currently Tiezao is both an administrative village and a natural village. The total village population is over 6000 people. The temple ritual system is divided into five neighborhood ritual associations (jia 甲) on the basis of different surnames. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Tiezao was part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈, the Wu 吴, and the Zheng 郑 are the major surnames. The are also the minor surnames of the Lin 林, the Weng 翁, the Cheng 程, the Zhang 张, and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Xinxingshê 钱塘境新兴社 was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 11 (1746), and rebuilt again in 1980. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Huban dashen 虎班大神, Tang dajiang 唐大将, He dajiang 葛大将, Zhou dajiang 周大将, Su dajiang 苏大将, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Longtian yuanshuai 龙天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qiuer yuanshuai 邱二元帅, Dong er yuanshuai Tiezao six jia ritual alliance 董二元帅, Li Ming dajiang 李明大将, Jinyu ertong 金玉儿童, Zhu sheren 朱舍人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 2) Qiantangjing Dongyueguan 钱塘境东岳观 was built in 1984. This temple branched off from the Jiangkou 江口 Dongyueguan 东岳观. The main god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Xi qiwang 西齐王, Dong pingwang 东平王, Bingling gong 炳灵公, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, and Cao jiangjun 曹将军. 3) Fulingong 绂麟殿 is dedicated to Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Huang Cang 黄仓, and Bai Cang 白仓. 4) Qiantangjing Sanguantang 钱塘境三官堂 is dedicated to Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shijia rulai 释迦如来, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Enshantang 恩山堂 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, and Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣. 6) Chongshengci 崇圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tianguan dadi 天官大帝, Diguan dadi 地官大帝, Shuiguan dadi 水官大帝, Xiaosheng xianshi 肖圣仙师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhangsheng xianshi 张圣先师, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, and Daye 大爷. 7) Yushantang 玉山堂 (also called the Beigushê 北古社) is dedicated to Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8) Yushengdian 玉神殿 and the Zhengyitang 正一堂 are dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Chenshi xiannü 陈氏仙女, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 9) Kunyuantang 坤元堂 was built in Qing Guangxu guimao (1903). The main god is Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天. 10) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 11) Qinghuage 清华阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 12) Qiongdaoci 琼岛祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenwu shengren 文武圣人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. 13) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 14) Enshanjing Dongqingsi 恩山境东清寺 is said to have been founded in the Ming dynasty and was repaired in the Guangxu period. A pillar from Qing Guangxu yiwei (1895) survives in the temple. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. The right hand hall has Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Meng jiangjun 孟将军, Qijiangjun 齐将军, and Zhenshen daye 正神大爷. 15) Shengmingci 圣明祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 240 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Chen 陈 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Wu 吴 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the Chen of Dingcuo 顶厝陈 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13, the Zheng and the Lin of Niulu 牛路郑林 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14, the Zhang 张 and the Xu 许 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, Chengcuo 程厝 and Wengcuo 翁厝 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu shengfei 法主圣妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhongtian yuanshuai 中天元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 are taken on a procession through the entire village. Opera is performed for ten to fifteen days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held and marionette plays are performed. 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Chongshengci 崇圣祠. 2/5: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held and marionette plays are performed. 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held. The celebration of 注生大帝 is held and a procession goes around the entire village, and opera is performed for thirty days. 4/15: The celebration of Cao jiangjun 曹将军 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. 5/12: The celebration of Bingling gong 炳灵公 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 5/15: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is held 6/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held. 7/13: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 7/18: The celebration of Dong pingwang 东平王 is held. 8/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed both before and after for thirty days. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 9/19: The celebration of Xi Qiwang 西齐王 is held. 10/24: The celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is held 10/26: The celebration of Huang jiangjun 黄将军 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinxingshê 新兴社 has spirit mediums 神童, but has not held guanjie 关戒 training sessions. The Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Dongyueguan 东岳观 have temple management committee 董事会 on which representatives from each neighborhood have a voice. The village has its own Puxian opera troupe 莆仙戏剧团. 3/28:Wencuo sanshê (Wencuo three shê ritual alliance) 温厝三社 The Wencuo three shê ritual alliance is located in hilly country between the northern irrigated plain and the Jiuliyang irrigation system. Water for irrigation is primarily drawn from springs on Nangshan mountain 囊山. This area was part of the Wenyuanpu 温院舖 (police/defense unit) of the Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the villages of Yuanbian 院边 and Huangdachen 黄大埕 were settled. In the early Qing, the village of Wencuo 温厝 branched off. These villages are now managed by the Tiezao 铁灶 and Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to the original shê-altars and temples into three shê ritual associations. Wencuo three shê ritual alliance Currently, the Sanshêgong 三社宫 temple, located in Linbin 林柄 (which is now an industrial park), is the main temple of the three shê alliance 三社 总宫. The Sanshêgong 三社宫 was first built in the early Qianlong period. Recently, due to the creation of an industrial park, the temple was torn down and rebuilt in a new location. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the dependant villages will come to the temple to request incense fire. On 2/25 the celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held, and on 7/23 there is a celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 10/6 there is a celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is marked by two days of opera, and these events are organized by the Sanshêgong temple management committee. 
V630 Wencuo 温厝 1. Village settlement Wencuo belongs to the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is 317 people living in 74 households. 2. Surname groups The Yang 杨 are the dominant surname. The Yang of Tangtou all came from this village. 3. Village temples 1) Jiaoshanjing Zhongyingshê 蛟山境钟英社 within the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 2) Fudetang 福德堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods are Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners of Sanshêgong 三社宫社 are taken to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/24, spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession around the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/12: The celebration of Daye 大爷 is held. 11/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. There are seventeen older generation spirit mediums 神童 and assistants, and 41 new generation mediums and assistants. In recent years there has been one guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session. 
V631 Huangdating 黄大庭 1. Village settlement Huangdating was originally known as Huangdacheng 黄大埕. The village was managed by the Tiezao Administrative Village 铁灶 行政村. In 1992, the village was transformed into an industrial part. There are some 67 households of Huangdating villagers, with over 300 people, living in the neighboring villages, but they still maintain their village rituals. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups in the village, the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 is the major surname. 3. Village temples Fengshanjing Guoanshê 凤山境国安社 is within the Fengshangong 凤山宫. The temple was torn down and rebuilt in a new location in 1994. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi xiangu 陈氏仙姑, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the incense burners of the Sanshêgong 三社宫 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/24: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation from among the dozen or so households still living in the vicinity of the temple. 
V632 Liuan 刘安 1. Village settlement Liuan was originally made up of the villages of Yuanbian 院边 and Qianzheng 前郑. In th late Ming, these villages were destroyed by pirate invasions, and the two villages later merged to become Liuan. Liuan belongs to the Tiezao Administrative Village 铁灶行政村. The current village population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are the following surname groups in Liuan: the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, the Guan 关, the He 何, and the Zhou 周. The Chen and the Zheng are the major surname groups. The Chen came from Yuanbian 院边, and the Zheng came from Qianzheng 前郑. 3. Village temples 1) Meipojing Tonglinggong 梅坡境通灵宫 contains the Liuanshê 刘安社, and belongs to the He 何 and Zhou surname groups 周. The main gods are Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大 将, Majia jiangjun 马贾将军, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong shengjun 萧公圣君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Jinyu tongzi 金玉童子, and Zhu sheren 朱舍人. 2) Qianzhengjing Qianzhengshê 前郑境前郑社 belongs to the Zheng 郑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃. 3) Beijidian 北极殿 was built in Qing Guangxu 5 (1879) and was restored in 1989. This temple belongs to the Zheng 郑, the He 何, and the Zhou 周. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Songpojing Shengxingshê 松坡境胜兴社 is linked to the Tengyungong 腾云宫 and belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇 大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the incense burners of the Meiposhê 梅坡社 and the Shengxingshê 胜兴社 are separately carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22, spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession through the entire village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold Jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/5: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. 4/12: The celebration of Chenggong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and earth 天地 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/6: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Liuanshê 刘安社 and the Qianzhengshê 前郑社 is organized by the Zheng 郑, He 何, and Zhou 周. 8/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shengxingshê 胜兴社 is organized by the Chen 陈. 12/10: The celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the neigbourhood or lineage group specified, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis within the specific territorial or lineage unit. 5. Ritual Groups Both the Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 and the Tengyungong 腾云宫 have spirit mediums 神童, but there have not been any guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. 3/3: 
A140 Houguo sishê (Houguo four shê ritual alliance) 后郭四社 The Houguo four shê ritual alliance is located at the border between the northern irrigated plain and the Jiuliyang irrigated plain. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the channels of the Nananbei 南安陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Tiantou Houguopu 田头后郭铺 (police/ defense unit) of the Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the early Qing, the villages of Houguo 后郭, Tiantou 田头, and Houdong 后董 were settled. Currently these villages are managed by the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into four shê ritual associations. The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 temple, located in Houguo village, is the main temple of the four shê ritual alliance. The main god is Baosheng dadi 保生大帝. It is said that formerly a joint Yuanxiao procession and ritual was celebrated by the four shê alliance, but these collective rites have not been revived.Houguo four shê ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Houguo were part of the black banner alliance. 
V633 Houguo 后郭 1. Village settlement Houguo is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Houguo is over 3600 people. Houguo is divided into several neighborhoods including Jingliu 井刘, Dacuo 大厝, Dashê 大社, Tuoli 坨里, Qianmian 前面, Xiapo 下坡, Dingpo 顶坡, Dutouli 杜头利, and Liucuo 刘厝. There are many overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in Houguo including the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, the Cai 蔡, the Zheng 郑, and the Zhao 赵. The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. The Chen moved to Houguo village from Kuokou 阔口, after first living in Puwei 埔尾. 3. Village temples 1) Chelujing Xiangongtang 车辂境仙宫堂 contains the altars of the Xinyishê 新义社 and the Youwanshê 游湾社. The main gods are Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君), and for the Youwanshê 游湾社, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. For the Xinyishê 新义社, the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Chishui lingguanfa dadi 勅水灵官 法大帝, Zhengyi linguan Ma yuanshuai 正一灵官马元帅, Taiyi sanxiangu 太乙三仙姑, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Jinshi dajiang 金氏大将, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xianzheng zunhou 显圣尊侯, Feitian dawang 飞天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhang shizhe 张使者, and Liu shizhe 刘使者. There is a stele in the temple composed in 1937 entitled 仙宫堂题捐禁约碑 (Stele listing the contributions to the Immortal Palace Hall and its rules and prohibitions) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:368, No. 334). 2) Wanghaitang and Qingsongting 望海堂, 青松亭 belong to the Chen of Dingpo 顶坡陈. The main god is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿 belongs to the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Chishui lingguan Fadadi 敕水灵官法大帝. 4) Xiangmingtang 尚明堂 belongs to the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and the Liucuo Liu 刘厝刘, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Yulingong 毓麟宫 the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅. 6) Feiyunguan飞云馆 belongs to Dutouli 杜头利, and the main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 7) Zhanggongfu 张公府 belongs to Xiapo 下坡 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8) Hudao shuyuan 壶岛书院 (also known as Baogongci 报功祠) belongs to what some villagers call the Xianghuapai 香花派 of the Three in One religious movement, implying that the initiates perform rituals for a livelihood. They have already passed down their ritual tradition for four generations. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Pengdaoci 蓬岛祠 belongs to the Wubenpai 悟本派 of the Three in One tradition, which primarily recites scriptures. The main gods is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 280 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Chen of Dingpo 顶坡陈 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13–14, Dacuo 大厝, Xiapo 下坡, Dashê 大社, and Dutouli 杜头利 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14–15 Liujing 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The celebration of Xiansheng Zunhou 显圣尊侯 is organized by Dacuo 大厝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. 3/1: The celebration of Liu shizhe 刘使者 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Jingliu 井刘. 3/13: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinyishê 新义社 is organized by Dacuo 大厝, Dashê 大社, Xiapo 下坡, and Tuoli 坨里 3/15: The celebration of Baosheng dadi 保生大帝(Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君) is held. 4/4: The celebration of Leshui lingguanfa dadi 敕水灵官法大帝 and Zhang shizhe 张使者 is organized by Jingliu 井刘. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dutouli 杜头利. 4/13: The celebration of Jinshi dajiang 金氏大将 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. 6/1: The celebration of Wugong dutong 吴公都统 is organized by Dashê 大社. 6/11: The celebration of Feitian dasheng 飞天大圣 is organized by Liucuo 刘厝 6/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Youwanshê 游湾社 is organized by Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝 and Dingpo 顶坡. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Hudao shuyuan 壶岛书院. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Xiapo 下坡. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Dacuo 大厝. 9/18: The celebration of Zhengyi lingguan Ma yuanshuai 正一灵官马元帅 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the neigbourhood specified, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis within the specific territorial unit. 5. Ritual groups The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 has a temple management committee 董事会 made up of representatives of each neighborhood and Overseas Chinese representatives. The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 and the Feiyunguan 飞云馆 both have tanban 坛班 altar associations of spirit mediums and their assistants. In 1949 and in 1987 guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions were held. Since 1993 guanjie sessions have been held roughly once every three years, and each time the sessions last for seven days. On11/16 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by the Pengdaoci 蓬岛祠 Three in One scripture masters. 
V634 Tiantou 田头 1. Village settlement Tiantou village belongs to Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is over 1000 people. There are lots of Oversea Chinese. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in Tiantou including the Shê 佘, the Dong 董, the Lin 林. The Shê 佘 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Timingjing Chongxingshê 题名境重兴社 is within the Chongxingtan zumiao (founding temple) 重兴坛祖庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xiaogong shenghou 肖公圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Lisan mingwang 李三明王. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 13 (1887) entitled 重兴 坛祖庙禁约题捐碑 (Stele recording contributions to the renovation of the Chongxingtan Founding Temple along with its regulations) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:345, No. 309). 2) Chengbentang 承本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–14, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession through the village, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a pingan jiao 平安醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 2/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for three days. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for three days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups The Chongxingtan zumiao 重兴坛祖庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. Since 1990 the temple has organized guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions three times. Each year Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility on the basis of age. 
V635 Houdong 后董 1. Village settlement Houdong village belongs to the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups in the village, the Guo 郭 and the Kang 康. The Kang are the major surname, and the Guo moved to the village from Houguo. 3. Village temples 1) Yuhujing Xinyishê 玉湖境新义社 is inside the Wudangong 武当宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Wuwei shenghou 五位圣侯. 2) Yubentang 玉本堂 was first built in Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850), and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist masters are invited to conduct a pingan jiao 平安醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for three days. 9/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility on the basis of age. 
A141 Aoshan qijing (Aoshan sevenfold ritual alliance) 鳌山七境 The Aoshan sevenfold ritual alliance is located alongside the sea in hilly country. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Hanjiang area 涵江. This area was part of the Tiantou Houguopu 田头后郭铺 and Ketingchengpu 柯亭埕铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the village of Yansun 岩浔 was settled in this region. The current population of the region is over 8000 people, living in the six villages of Houhuang 后黄, Aoli 澳里, Xiashê 下社, Xiake下柯, Dingke 顶柯, and Qitou 歧头, all of which are managed by the Aoshan Administrative Village 鳌山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 (founding temple), located in Aoshan 鳌山 village, on top of Yanzhen mountain 雁阵山, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. This temple is commonly referred to as the Yanxungong 岩浔宫. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘. Secondary gods include Fushan shenghou 孚善圣侯 (Chen Yinggong 陈应功), Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Miaoguan dashi 妙观大师 and Zhaogong dashuai 赵公太师. On lunar 1/6 the birthday of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is celebrated. Each of the subsidiary villages takes turns sponsoring opera at the main temple. Dingke 顶柯 village carries the goddess back to watch opera every year at this time. Lunar 6/10 is the birthday of Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君. The Toujing 头境 (consisting of the villages of Houhuang 后黄, Aoli 澳里 and Xiashe下社, the Zhong (middle) jing (ritual territory) 中境 (made up of Xiake 下柯 and Dingke 顶柯), and the Wei (tail) jing 尾境 (ritual territory—made up of Qitou village 歧头) take turns sponsoring opera performances, which go on for at least ten days. In addition, each lunar 3/19 the celebration of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is held, and on lunar 4/14 the birth   Aoshan qijing sevenfold ritual alliance day of Fushan shenghou is celebrated 孚善圣侯. On these occasions there are also several days of opera performances. These activities are organized by the temple management committee, which is made up of representatives of each of the ritual territories. The Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 has an altar dedicated to the spirit mediums of the past (历代古坛). Currently there are over ten spirit mediums, and they have already undergone four rounds of spirit medium training guanjie 关戒. Each spirit medium training session lasts for at least one week, and the training concludes with a climbing of a ladder of swords. Subsidiary to the temple are the following shê altars: Huangan zushê 皇安祖社, Huangan xinshê 皇安新社, Huangan Qianshê 皇 安前社, Tiechang zushê 铁场祖社, Tiechang dongshê 铁场东社, Tiechang zhongshê 铁场中社, Xinxing shangshê 新兴上社, and Shayuan zushê 沙园 祖社. This alliance is referred to as the seven ritual territories and eight shê altar alliance 七境八社. 
V636 Houhuang 后黄 1. Village settlement The village population is over 580 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surname groups in the village, the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zhao 赵. The Chen are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Huangan zushê 皇安祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huanganting 皇安亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years. Opera is performed for two days. 5/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held every three years. Opera is performed for four days. 5. Ritual Groups Houhuang has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V637 Aoli 澳里 1. Village settlement The village population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surname groups in the village, the Lin 林, the Wei 魏, and the Zheng 郑. The Lin are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing shangshê 新兴上社 was built in 1923, and belongs to the Lin 林 and the Wei 魏. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tiechang zhongshê 铁场中社 belongs to the Zheng 郑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yaozhutang 瑶珠堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling Zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 takes place once every three years and opera is performed for four days. 10/28: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinxing shengshê 新兴上社 is organized by the Lin 林 and the Wei 魏. Opera is performed for two days. 11/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Tiechang zhongshê’s 铁场中社 is organized by the Zheng 郑. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Aoli has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V638 Xiashê 下社 1. Village settlement The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tiechang dongshê 铁场东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fushan shenghou 孚善圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. 2) Yuanmingtang 圆明堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Guanghuatang 光华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Mile fozu 弥勒佛祖. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held every nine years. Opera is performed for two days. 4/12: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling Zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held once every three years. Opera is performed for four days. 8/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Xiashê has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V639 Xiake 下柯 1. Village settlement Xiake was originally called Ketingcheng 柯亭埕. The village population is over 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The two major surnames are the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. The Lin are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tiechang zushê 铁场祖社 is shared with Dingke 顶柯 village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Xiake, together with Dingke, take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is celebrated once every nine years, together with Dingke. Opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaolilng zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, together with Dingke 顶柯. Opera is performed for four days. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held together with Dingke 顶柯. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Xiake has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V640 Dingke 顶柯 1. Village settlement Dingke was originally called Ketingcheng 柯亭埕. The village has a population of over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Ke 柯. The Ke are the dominant surname group, and are related to the Ke of Xiake 下柯. 3. Village temples 1) Sanxuanmiao 三喧庙 is dedicated to Zhushen dadi 注天大帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Dazunmiao 达尊庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Dingke, together with Xiake, take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held by going to the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 and inviting the god to watch the opera, which is performed for two days. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with two days of opera. 3/28: The celebration of Zhutian dadi 注天大帝 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, together with Xiake 下柯. Opera is performed for four days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held together with Xiake 下柯. Two days of opera are performed. 5. Ritual Groups Dingke has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V641 Qitou 歧头 1. Village settlement Qitou was originally called Yanzhen 雁阵. The village population is over 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Gong 龚, the Huang 黄, and the Liu 刘. The Gong have the most people. The Huang moved from Haungxiang 黄巷 and claim to be the descendants of Huang Gongdu 黄公度. 3. Village temples 1) Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 belongs to the Gong 龚. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 belongs to the Liu 刘, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 belongs to the Huang 黄 and is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 5) Beiyuandian 北元殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Nandou xingjun 南斗 星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, and Dujian dadi 都监大帝. 6) Qingandong 清安洞 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公星君. 7) Yuanhuatang 源华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 8) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9) Wanglinggong 万灵宫 is dedicated to Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 10) Sanhuitang 三会堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 1580 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, each shê community takes the incense burners of its shê altar to each household in its own territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, and two days of opera are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 is organized by the Huang 黄. 9/4: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 is organized by the Gong 龚. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 is organized by the Liu 刘. 5. Ritual Groups Qitou village has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. Unusually, on 6/13 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. In most of the Putian area, these rites take place around the Xiayua (lower prime 10/15) rather than around Zhongyuan (7/15) which is more common in Minnan areas and elsewhere in China. 
A142 Jingshan sancun (Jingshan three village ritual alliance) 鲸山三村 The Jingshan three village ritual alliance is located in the hills alongside the sea. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the irrigation canals in Hanjiang. This area was part of the Xiaoshanpu 小山铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里sub-canton. In the early Qing, this area was subject to the coastal evacuation policy. Currently the area has the three villages of Shishan 石山, Dongcheng 东埕, and Xinputou 新埔头. These villages are managed by two Administrative Village committees (Jingshan 鲸山 and Yangfang 杨 芳行政村). The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars into five shê ritual associations. The Xingxian baoshê 兴贤宝社 temple of Xinputou village is the founding shê of the five shê of the alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year at Yuanxiao, each of the shê of the alliance comes to the temple to invite the gods back with them. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the five shê of Jingshan were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V642 Dongcheng 东埕 1. Village settlement Dongcheng village belongs to the Jingshan Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The village population is approximately 400 people, living in about 100 households. The main livelihood comes from vegetable gardening. 2. Surname groups With the exception of a single Xu 许 household, all the residents of Dongcheng village are surnamed Huang 黄. The Huang moved to Dongcheng from Huangxiang, where there are still ancestal tombs and an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Dongshanjing Xingxian qianshê 东山境兴贤前社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Dongshanjing Beijidian 东山境北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Wugong yuanshuai 伍公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sanyuan dajiang 三元大将, Li shizhe 李使者, and Guo shizhe 郭使者. Jingshan three village ritual alliance 3) Wuxintang 悟心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Chen Zhida 陈智达, and Liang Puyao 梁普耀 (the latter two being leaders of the Three in One in the late Qing and early Republican period). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Sanyuan dajiang 三元大将, accompanied by their spirit mediums 神童, go on a procession around the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and movies are shown in the temple courtyard. On 1/15, taking part in the procession within the territory of Shishan Xingxian dongshê 石山兴贤东社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is held with two days of opera. 6/13: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 10/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are five spirit medium 神童 in the village, who have been through one guanjie 关戒 training session. 
V643 Shishan 石山 1. Village settlement Shishan is also known as Xiaoshan 小山. Shishan village belongs to the Jingshan Village Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The current population is approximately 3300 people living in around 600 households. The main livelihood is aquaculture, raising seafood and fishing. According to people in Dongcheng village 东埕 the shore of Shishan and its dams originally belonged to Dongcheng, and only later were seized by the villagers of Shishan. At the moment this is under litigation. There have been many conflicts over these issues in the past as well. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Chen are more numerous and live mostly in Qianzhi 前至 neigbourhood. The Chen moved to Shishan from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 live in Houzhi 后至 neighborhood, and came from Huangxiang 黄巷. 3. Village temples 1) Jingshanjing Ganyinmiao (also called the Hunyuandian) 鲸山境感应庙(混元殿) which contains the Xingxian shexue 兴贤社学. This temple has as its subsidiaries the Dongshê (eastern) 东社, Xishê (western) 西社, and the Nanshê (southern) 南社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, as well as Taishang laojun 太上老君. Secondary gods include Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Shuiguan dadi 水官大人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王 (Shitai zhenren 石胎真人), Fude zhengshen 福 德正神, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 11 (1861) entitled 重修混元殿碑记 (Stele on the restoration of the Temple of Chaotic Origin) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 286). 2) Jingshanjing wudanggong 鲸山境武当官 is also known as the Huting (Tiger pavilion) 虎亭. It is said that the Tiger taming Monk Hufu zushi Huang Miaoying 伏虎祖师黄妙应 once traveled here and carved a stone tiger and a stele as a mark of his progress. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Tiangang 天罡, Dikui 地魁, Shi zuoye 史佐爷, Zheng zuoye 张佐爷, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Wubentang 悟本堂 (Wuben shuyuan 悟本书院) was founded by Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the late Qing, and is the main temple of the Wuben branch of the Three in One religious movement 悟本派总堂, and so is independent of the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 in Putian. This claims to be the first temple in the Three in One movement to hold the Lanpen 兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Puyao Liang xiansheng 普辉梁先生, Zhida Chen xiansheng 智达 陈先生, Zhihui Liu xiansheng 智瑞刘先生, Weituo 韦驮, Shijia 释迦, and Jialan 迦兰. The SJCDCB, 1992: 8 lists 340 initiates. 5) Wuxintang 悟心堂 in Qiancuo 前厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. 6) Jingyuean 净月庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/15, the Huang 黄 of Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian xishê 兴贤西社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 8/1: The celebration of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 10/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 12/26: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village but they have no guanjie 关戒 training. Formerly they set up an altar 设坛 for their activities. Shishan has over 400 initiates in its Three in One temple. The temple standing committee 常务理事 has over a dozen members. On 7/29 the Wubentang 悟本堂 performs the Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance and marionette plays are performed. 
V644 Xinpotou 新坡头 1. Village settlement Xinpotou is also know as Xinputou 新浦头. Xinpotou belongs to the Yangfang administrative village 杨芳行政村. The village population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Huang 黄 and the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Jinpojing Xingxian baoshê 锦坡境兴贤宝社: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Jinpojing Wenshendian 锦坡境温神殿 is dedicated to Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 3) Baohutang 宝壶堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Aoshanjing Xingxian dongshê 鳌山境兴贤东社 belongs to the Huang of Shishan 石山黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Yongming baoguosi 永明报国寺 was first built in the Ming Wangli period (1572–1620) and was rebuilt in the Republican period, and has been restored in recent years. This temple belongs to the twenty-four jing (ritual territories) of the entire Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里二十四境. The Dabaidian 大悲殿 is dedicated to Rulai fozhu 如来佛主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者. The Jiuxiaodong 九宵洞 is dedicated to the Baxian (the Eight Immortals) 八仙, and the Jiuxian (Nine Immortals 九仙. The Xinjiapo (Singapore) Qiongsantang 新加坡琼三堂, is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Chaoyang shuyuan 朝阳书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. These gods were returned to Putian when the temple in Singapore closed down. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Zhou 卓 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, the Huang 黄, together with the Shishan Xingxian dongshê 石山兴贤东社, take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian baoshê 兴显宝社 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 is organized by the Chen of Shishan 石山陈. 11/1: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Wenshenmiao 温神庙 has spirit mediums 神童, but they do not undergo guanjie 关戒 training. 
A143 Yangfang liushê (Yangfang six shê ritual alliance) 杨芳六社 The Yangfangsix shê ritual alliance is located in hilly country near the sea. Water for irrigation comes from the irrigation canals of Hanjiang. This area was part of the Zengfangpu 曾方铺 and Sulinpu 苏林铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the early Qing, the villages of Dongfang 东坊, Shangyuan 上园, Houzeng 后曾, Dongzeng 东曾, Qianlin 前林, and Lingtou 岭坑 were settled. Currently this area is managed by the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The Tianhougong 天后宫 temple, located in Xilin 西林 village, is the main temple of the ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上 Yangfang six shê ritual alliance 圣母. Each year with an intercalary third lunar month, the goddess is carried in a procession around the villages of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the six shê of Yangfang were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V645 Shangmei 上梅 1. Village settlement Shangmei was originally called Shangyuan 上园. Shangmei belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. In ancient time, together with Xizeng 西曾 and Houzeng 后曾, the area was called Zenggongmu (the Zeng tombs) 曾公墓. The village population of Shangmei is over 300 people living in 84 households. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, and that is the Zeng 曾. The Zeng came from Guangdong 广东 and are now into their tenth generation in the village. They have divided into four lineage branches 四房. The original Zeng family ancestral hall 曾氏祖祠 has been rebuilt, and there is collective worship of the ancestors 祭祖合祭. 3. Village temples Shadijing Xinzhongshê 沙堤境新中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the villagers join up with Houzeng 后曾 to together carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and guacai 挂彩 (paste up New Years couplets). Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V646 Houzeng 后曾 1. Village settlement Houzeng belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. There are currently about 60 households in the village. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Zeng, and they are related to the Zeng of Shangmei 上梅. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Changxingshê 沙堤境长兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shunhemiao 顺和庙 is dedicated to Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Tongling shifu 通灵师父, Lingong shifu 林公师父, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 3) Shengzhu shuyuan 圣珠书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers join up with those of Shangmei to together carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to guacai 挂彩. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with two days of opera. 5/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅) is held with half a month of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are several score of Three in One initiates 门人 in Houzeng village. 
V647 Dongzeng 东曾 1. Village settlement Dongzeng belongs to the Yangfang administrative village 杨芳行政村 The current village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Dongzeng is a single surname village—the Zeng 曾 are related to the Zeng of Houzeng. There is a Zeng ancestral hall 曾姓祖祠. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Beijidian 沙堤境北极殿 contains the altar of the Xinzhongshê 新中社. This is the main temple of the Shati ritual territory 沙堤境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Baihu jiangjun 白虎将军. 2) Shadijing Nanqinggong 沙堤境南清宫 is jointly owned with Houzeng 后曾 and Shangmei 上梅. The main gods are Qinming Baidaren 钦命白大人, Weng daren 翁大人, Tian daren 田大人, Yang daren 杨大人, and He daren 何大人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Chen daye 陈大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Chengguangtang 诚光堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Jiutian Tiangong yuanshuai 九天 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Chenshi dage 陈氏大哥. 4) Shanggeting 上阁亭 is famous for responding to prayers for rain 祈雨有 灵. The temple’s reputation reached to Putian city. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 11/14: The celebration of the five Daren 五大人 surnamed Bai 白, Weng 翁, Tian 田, Yang 杨, He 何 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. There are thirty older spirit medium 神童 and forty younger spirit mediums 神童. 
V648 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement Xilin was originally called Qianlin 前林. Xilin belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The village population is over 1540 people. The main livelihood is farming and pulling carts. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Zeng 曾 and the Lin 林. The Zeng 曾 came from Nanfeng in Jiangxi 江西南丰. First they moved to Hetou 河头 near Putian and later to Xilin 西林. They are now in their eighth generation and have divided into six lineage branches. The Zeng of Jikui 集奎 and Xialin 下林 come to Xilin to worship their ancestors. The ancestral tombs have however been flattened and destroyed. 3. Village temples 1) Xihujiung Tianhougong 西湖境天后宫 contains the altar of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and is the main temple of the Yangfang seven fold village alliance 杨芳七境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 2) Yinghu shuyuan 应湖书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Xinghu shuyuan 兴湖书院 is dedicated to Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣. 4) Mingyitang 明义堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/10 the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is held with two days of opera. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two day of opera. Each year with an intercalary third month there is a procession around the entire sevenfold village alliance. 4/12: The celebration of Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯 is held with two days of opera. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with at least two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Tianhougong 天后宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association, with over sixty spirit mediums 神童 and their assistants. There have been guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions three times. 
V649 Dongfang 东坊 1. Village settlement Dongfang was originally called Dongfang 东方. Dongfang belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The current village population is over 1200 people. 2. Surname groups Dongfang is a single surname village, surnamed Lin. The Lin have divided into six lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Xiatang shengjing Xinanshê 霞塘胜境新安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Andingtang 安定堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者. 3) Shanggeting 上阁亭 is renowned for its responses to prayers for rain 祈雨有灵 and its reputation extends to Putian city. The temple is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village. On 1/18, the ritual of the handing over of the duties of the Fushou 福首交接 is held, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinanshê 新安社 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants 神童(道友) of whom there are now over fifty. The practice is to hold guanjie 关戒 training sessions once every three years, and then to hold a Yuxiu gongde ritual 预修功德. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 5/25: 7/15: 7/17: 7/23: 11/7:Lingdou 岭兜 1. Village settlement Lingdou was originally Lingkeng 岭坑. Lingdou belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The current village population is approximately 400 people. The village is divided by surname into Fengan zhongshê 丰安中社 and Fengan Nanshê 丰安南社. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Xu 徐, the Huang 黄, the He 何, and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanjing Tongxiaodian 龙山境通霄殿 contains the altar of the Fenganzhong shê 丰安中社. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhengyi tianshi 正一天师, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 2) Longshanjing Longshangong 龙山境龙山宫 contains the altar of the Fengan nanshê 丰安南社. The main gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sanwei xiangu 三位仙姑, and Ma Jia dajiang 马贾大将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the He 何 and the Wu 吴 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on a procession around their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the He 何 and the Wu 吴. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by the He 何 and the Wu 吴. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 10/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fengan nanshê 丰安南社 is held. 10/15: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fengan zhongshê 丰安中社 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by surname group or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has a tanban 坛班 altar association with thirty older spirit mediums and forty younger spirit mediums 神童. 
A144 Duotou shiwu shê (Duotou fifteen shê ritual alliance) 哆头十五社 The Duotou three village ritual alliance is located alongside the dikes by the sea facing the Xinghua 兴化 bay southwest of Hanjiang 涵江. Water for irrigation comes from irrigation canals from the Hanjiang area. These villages once belonged to the Duotoupu 哆头铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里. This area was originally a series of salt-fields, where sea salt was dried by the sun and gathered for sale. In the early Qing, this area was subject to the coastal evacuation policy. Currently the population exceeds 12,000 people. This region is managed by the Duoqian 哆前, Duozhong 哆中, and Duohou 哆后 Administrative Villages. The Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 of Duoqian 哆前 and the Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 of Duohou 哆后 are the main temples of the three village alliance 三村总宫. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 of Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 is carried on a procession to each village in the alliance. Every four years, the Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 of Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 also goes on a procession to each village in the alliance. Every six years, the Zhusheng dadi of the Dongyuedian 东岳殿注生大帝 is carried in a procession through all the villages of the alliance. Duotou fifteen shê ritual alliance 
V651 Duoqian 哆前 1. Village settlement Duoqian is both a natural village as well as an administrative village The population of Duoqian is approximately 3000 people. The village is divided into the three shê of Xinxing 新兴, Qianhu 前湖, and Kaiming 开明三社. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in Duoqian are the Li 李, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the huang 黄, and the Xiao 肖. The Li are the main surname, and there is a Li ancestral home 李氏祖厝 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 (also called Beijidian 北极殿) contain the altars of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Qianhu shushê 前湖书社. The temple is also referred to as the Qianhugong 钱湖宫. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tuzhu zhenren 土主真人, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Huiying shenghou 惠应圣侯, Liesheng shenghou 烈侯圣王, Wuhua tongzi 五华童子, Jinma tongzi 金马童子 Zhaoli daye, 昭利大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Tongmingdian 通明殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. 3) Haoranmiao 浩然庙 is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Ma jiangjun 马将军 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Mingdean 明德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Qingyuanci 清源祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records only one initiate at this temple. 6) Fuyuanan 福源庵 was built in 1943 (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the Fushou of each she carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Every four years the god goes on a procession on this day through the three villages of the Duotou ritual alliance. 4/1: The celebration of Zhaoli daye 昭利大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. 4/15: The celebration of Huiying shenghou 惠应圣侯 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, and has completed guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training. Duoqian has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual masters 祖传道士. 
V652 Duozhong 哆中 1. Village settlement Duozhong is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Duozhong is approximately 3000 people. The village is divided into the two shê called Fuxingshê 福兴社 and Wenxiashê 文霞社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Li 李, and Zeng 曾. The Li 李 are the most numerous. They moved to Duozhong from Yangwei 洋尾. Each year on 9/11 they go to Dongzhen to sweep the tombs of their ancestors, and to worship them. The Chen have less than 500 people in Duozhong. The Zeng are even less numerous. They are related to the Zeng of Dongzeng 东曾, and Houzeng 后曾. 3. Village temples 1) Lianzhujing Fuxingshê 联珠境福兴社 and Tianshanggong 天上宫(also called the Lianzhugong 联珠宫) is said to have been founded in the Song dynasty. The temple was repaired in the Qing Qianlong, Daoguang, and Xuantong periods. The temple originally belonged to Xilin 西林 but later Xilin divided incense and built its own Tianhougong 天后宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中 天大圣, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Boye 伯爷. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xuantong 1 (1909) by Shi Guanghua 石光华 entitled 重修联珠宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Temple of Linked Pearls) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:310, No. 275). 2) Aotoujing Wenxia dashê 鳌头境文霞大社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. This temple preserves a stele composed in Tongzhi 2 (1863) entitled 重修文 霞社记 (Record of the repairs to the Literary Aurora shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:324, No. 288). 3) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 and the Baiyundong 白云洞 have an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. The main gods are Zhutian dadi 注天大帝, and Baigong daren 白公大人. Secondary gods include Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Penggong yuanshuai 蓬公元帅, Tiangong daren 田公 大人, Jingong daren 金公大人, Magong daren 马公大人, Xiaogong daren 萧公大人, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Kuaili jiangjun 快吏将军, Lihe tongzi 李鹤童子, and Shichun tongzi 十春童子. 4) Qingyundong 青云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong daren 田公大人, Wenggong daren 翁公大人, and Jingong daren 金公大人, Secondary gods include Dongshizhe 东使者, and Xishizhe 西使者. 5) Weilingmiao 威灵庙 originally belonged to Dongzeng 东曾. The main god is Mei boye 梅伯爷. 6) Jindetang 金德堂 was built in Qing Jiaqing period (1796–1820) and is dedicated to Shidian yanwang 十殿阎王. The temple is considered the ancestral temple of the Longhuajiao movement in Putian. The temple preserves two stelae, the first composed in Xianfeng 7 (1857) entitled 重修金 德堂碑记 (Stele inscription on the renovation of the Hall of Golden Virtue) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:320, No. 285), and a second stele composed in Tongzhi 12 (1867) entitled 金德堂题捐祀业碑 (Stele listing the names of those who contributed to the sacrificial found of the Hall of Golden Virtue) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:329, No. 293). 7) Ganluting 甘露亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 8) Nanbaotang 南宝堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Houyunge 厚云阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10) Meixingan 梅性庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽蓝. 11) Taoyuan zuci 涛源祖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 of the Wenxiashê 文霞社 is carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11–12, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Fuxingshê 福兴社文霞社 is carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The celebration of Tian 田, Jin 金, and Weng 翁 Daren 大人 is held. Each year with an intercalary second month these gods go on procession through the entire village. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 3/28: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held. 4/15: The celebration of Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军 and Zhugong daren 朱公 大人 is organized by Fuxingshê 福兴社. 6/24: The celebration of Mei boye 梅伯爷 is held. 7/1: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 8/6: The celebration of Bai daren 白大人 is held. 8/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人诞 is organized by the Fuxingshê 福兴社 and the Wenxiashê 文霞社 separately. 9/18: The celebration of Li He tongzi 李鹤童子 is held. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two, and in some cases three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Wenxiashê 文霞社 and the Dongyuedian 东岳殿 both have ancient altars to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, and continue to have spirit mediums 神童. 
V653 Duohou 哆后 1. Village settlement Duohou is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Duohou is over 6000 people. The village is divided into ten shê, or neighborhoods. These are Qianting 前亭, Xinzhong 新中, Houzhong 后中, Dongxing 东兴, Shangxing 上兴, Xida 西大, Gongbian 宫边, Dongcuo 东厝, Tianxia 田下, and Xincuo 新厝. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, and the Zeng 曾. The Zheng are the main surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Aotoujing Xinanshê 鳌头境新安社 and Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 is the main temple of the Duotou ritual alliance 哆头总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayuan jiangjun 马援将军, Lingtong tongzi 灵通童子, Guangli longwang 广利龙王, Wangdu yuanshuai 王都元帅, Gongli lingwang 功利灵王, Yanggong taishi 杨公大使, Yanggong ershi 杨公二使, Taishiye 大师爷, Mou yuanshuai 牟元帅, Zhu yuanshuai 朱元帅, Ding yuanshuai 丁元帅, and Luo yuanshuai 罗元帅. The temple preserves one stele composed in Daoguang 29 (1849) by Li Yangan 李彦幹 entitled 重修昭惠廟碑記 (Stele recording the repairs to the Temple of Shining Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:312, No. 278) and a second stele composed in 1927 entitled 重修昭惠庙碑记 (Stone inscription on the Temple of Shining Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:365, No. 331). 2) Tianyundian 天云殿 was restored in 1982 and is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Yuying shenghou 俞应圣侯, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Dongyueguan 东岳殿 is owned by the three villages of the Duotou alliance together. Every sixty years the gods of the temple go on a procession through the entire ritual alliance. The main god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Xiaogong daren 萧公大人, Tiangong daren 田公 大人, Baigong daren 白公大人, Jingong daren, 金公大人, Magong daren 马公大人, Penggong daren 彭公大人, and Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. 4) Renxianci 仁先祠 was built in the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1735), and is dedicated to Dizangwang pusa 地藏王普萨. 5) Guangfuci 广福祠 is dedicated to Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙. Secondary gods include Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 6) Wanjinting 万金亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Chongxingfu 崇兴府 is dedicated to Li dajiangjun 李大将军. 8) Shouyuan shuyuan 涛源书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. (SJCDCB, 1992: 9). 9) Tianyuantang 天源堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records fourteen initiates. 10) Guangmingtang 光明堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃 goes on a procession throughout the Duotou ritual alliance. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival is held 总元宵 with opera for three days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Tianyundian 天云殿. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 3/15: The celebration of Guangli longwang 广利龙王 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Xida 西大. 5/10: The celebration of Wang duyuanshuai 王都元帅 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 5/16: The celebration of Tiandi 天地 is organized by Tianyundian 天云殿. 8/1: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by Tianyundian 天云殿. 8/15: The celebration of Li daren 李大人 is organized by Chongxingfu 重兴府. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for three days. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by Tianxia 田下. 8/23: The celebration of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅) is organized by Qianting 前亭. 9/15: The celebration of Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙 is organized by Guangfuci 广福祠. 9/28: The celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 11/1: The celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅 is organized by Shangxing 上兴. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific temples and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Zhaohui zumiao 昭惠祖庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, which is called the Lushan dafayuan 庐山大法院. Every twelve years there is a cycle of guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. Each session lasts seven days. There is the climbing of sword ladders 爬刀梯 and the completion of the Yuxiu rites 预修 (preparatory cultivation for immortality) as the conclusion of the cycle of training. 
A145 Gaomei wucun (Gaomei five village ritual alliance) 高美五村 The Gaomei five village ritual alliance is located along the dikes by the side of the sea along the Xinghua Bay. Water for irrigation comes from the channels around Hanjiang. This area was part of the Baimeipu 百美铺 and Shanggang Tiancuopu 上港田厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. Originally, the region was devoted to salt fields by the side of the sea. In the early Qing, the villages of Shangfang 上方, Gaoli 高里, Biwei 泌尾, Bancheng 半埕 and Shanggang 上港 were settled. These areas are now managed by the Gaomei Administrative Village 高美行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into four shê ritual associations. The Shouhainmiao 寿海庙 temple, located in Meiwei 美尾 village, was originally the main temple of the five village alliance. The main god was Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. It is said that formerly the god would go on processions. These collective processions and rites have not yet been revived. 
V654 Fengxiu 凤秀 1. Village settlement Fengxiu was originally called Gaoli 高里. The village population is over 500 people. Gaomei five village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Lin 林, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Su 苏 and the 蔡 are both related to people in Shanggang village 上港. 3. Village temples 1) Fengshanjing Yongxingshê 凤山境永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐. 2) Luxingmiao 禄兴庙 is dedicated to Qincha Tiandaren 钦差田大人 and Ma daren 马大人. Secondary gods include Zhongjun 中军 and Canmou 参谋. 3) Chongshengtang 崇圣堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Fengxiu village, together with Bancheng 半埕 village, takes the incense burners of the Yongxingshê 永兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on procession within the territory. On 2/20–21, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 with opera performances for two days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The celebration of Qincha Tian daren 钦差田大人 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐 is held. 7/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held together with Bancheng village 半埕. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Qinchai Ma daren 钦差马大人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Yongxingshê 永兴社 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings were held in the Republican period, and again in 1980. 
V655 Bancheng 半埕 1. Village settlement The village population is approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Lin 林, and they are related to the Lin of Fengxiu 凤秀. 3. Village temples 1) Pantingjing Fuxinggong 泮庭境福星宫 contains the altar of the Yongxingshê 永兴社 and is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dash   eng 齐天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Li daren 李大人, and Peng daren 彭大人. 2) Yitiantang 一天堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 go on a procession through the village. On 2/1 the spring sacrifice in held 春祭 with opera for two days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/7: The celebration of Peng daren 彭大人 is held. 10/19: The celebration of Li daren 李大人 is held. 11/10: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Fuxinggong 福星宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. This altar association claims to be part of the Jinlunyuan “金轮院” ritual tradition and has a Lushan altar “庐山之坛”. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings have been held twice, in 1982 and 1998. 
V656 Shangfang 上方 1. Village settlement The village population is over 680 people. 2. Surname groups The oldest surname is the Fang 方. There is a Fang lineage ancestral hall 方氏宗祠. The Su surname 苏 is the largest, with over 70% of the village population. The Cai 蔡 came from Xianyou 仙游. There are also surname groups who left Shangfang to settle elsewhere, such as the Dapu Wang 大埔王, the Aoshan Gong 鳌山龚 and the Gongxia Su 宫下苏. Currently there is a Fang lineage ancestral hall in Shangfang 方氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Aofangjing Xinyishê 鳌方境新义社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Taishang laojun 太上老君, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Youbi tongzi 右弼童子. The temple has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. 2) Duiyang shuyuan 对阳书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records only two initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners of the Xinyishê 新义社 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is an altar to the Jinlunyuan 金轮院古坛 in the Xinyishê 新义社, and guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions have occurred. 
V657 Shanggang 上港 1. Village settlement The village population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups There are three main surnames, the Su 苏, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Su 苏 are the most numerous with over two thirds of the population. They used to have an ancestral hall but it has collapsed. 3. Village temples 1) Shanggangjing Aoxing shushê 上港境鳌兴书社 is inside the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Xushuangtang 续霜堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Shengcai tongzi 生财童子, Xianzhu longnü 献珠龙女, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhou Cang 周仓, Guan Ping 关平, and Ma zhongjun 马中军. 3) Huaguang chansi 华光禅寺 was built in the Ming and repaired in Qing Daoguang dingmei (1847) and in 1932. In recent years the Banduting 半渡亭 has been moved. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 4) Huanyundong 华云洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 are taken on a procession around the village. On 1/23 the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi is 玄天上帝 held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two to three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are two spirit medium 神童 in the village, each with an assistant 扶童. 
V658 Meiwei 美尾 1. Village settlement Meiwei was originally known as Biwei 泌尾. The village population is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Zhang 张, the Zeng 曾, and the Su 苏. The Su have kept a Su lineage ancestral hall 苏氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Fushangong 福山宫 is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, Guogong daren 郭公大人, Wang zhongjun 王中军, and Li zhongjun 李中军. 2) Baimeijing Yixingshê 百美境义兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shouhaimiao 寿海庙 was built in Qing Qianlong 53 (1788), and is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Libu zhongjun 李部中军, Wangbu zhongjun 王部中军, and Guogong daren 郭公大人. 4) Qilinmiao 麒麟庙 is dedicated to Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 5) Ziyundong 紫云洞 is dedicated to Daren 大人. 6) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records twelve initiates. 7) Mingdetang Buddhist hall 明德堂 was built in 1930 (PTZJZCG, 1992:207). 8) Fuyansi Buddhist temple 福严寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:207). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhang 张 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Zeng 曾 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the Sun 苏 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival is held 总元宵 and the Guogong daren 郭公大人 of Fushangong 福山宫 goes on a procession through the entire village. On 1/16, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/9: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/15: The celebration of Guogong daren 郭公大人 is held and opera is performed for thirty days. 10/22: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. On these occasions, with the exception of the month of opera for Guogong daren 郭公大人, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛 in the shê temple, and guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred three times. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected by divination to organize the village rituals. 
A146 (
V659 Xinpu sishê (Xinpu four shê ritual alliance) 新浦四社 Xinpu 新浦) 1. Village settlement The four shê alliance of Xinpu is located in the Sanjiangkou 三江口港 harbor. The principal source of water for irrigation is from the irrigation channels of Hanjiang. This area was part of the Beimepu 百美 铺 of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Xinpu was already settled. The current population of Xinpu is over 3000 people. The main livelihood is in transshipment of goods. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames of Xinpu are the Li 李, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Yu 俞. The Li are the Baitang Li 白塘李氏 from Yangwei 洋尾. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiangjing Fushougong 星江境福寿宫 is said to have been built in the Yuan dynasty and rebuilt in Qing Kangxi 28 (1689), and restored in 1982. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yangsheng zhongjun 杨圣中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Liming dajiang 李明大将, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 includes the altars of the Chongxing Yushê 重兴俞社, Chongxing xishê 重兴西社, Chongxing Chenshê 重兴陈社, and Xinpu four shê ritual alliance the Shangyuan Lishê 上元李社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Jiedaidian 接待殿 belongs to Lishê 李社 and was newly built in 1993. The main god is Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, and secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhaiqianmiao 寨前庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Lipomiao 里坡庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Benyuantang 本源堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. 7) Qinghuage 清华阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Xingshengci 兴圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Faye 法爷, and Zhongjun 中军. 9) Xiabentang 夏本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records fifty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On ¼, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 and opera is performed for three days. On 1/8, divination blocks are cast in Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 to decide the date of the Yuanxiao procession. On 1/15–18, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 are invited from Fushougong 福寿宫 to go on a procession through the entire village which lasts for three days. On 1/26 the Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 holds the spring sacrifice 春祭. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. On 1/ 28 the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 holds the spring sacrifice 春祭. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held. 3/17: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. 4/8: The celebration of Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chongxing chenshê 重兴陈社. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Chongxing yushê 重兴俞社. 5/16: The celebration of Tiandi 天地 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin 观音 is organized by the Chongxing Linshê 重兴林社. 11/9: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Shangyuan Lishê 上元李社. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific temples and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are a total of eleven old and new spirit mediums 神童 in Xinpu. They belong to the Lushan dafayuan “庐山大法院”. They take part in the Yuanxiao spring sacrifices and perform exorcistic dances 行傩. Every ten to twelve years there are guanjie 关戒 training sessions. In 1993 the sessions lasted three days. Jiangkou qijing (Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance) 江口七境 The Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance is located in the town of Jiangkou, which currently has a population of over 10,000 people. The town formed gradually through the merging together during the Ming dynasty of several fishing villages clustered along the south side of the mouth of the Qiulu 萩芦 River. This area is irrigated by a canal diverted from the Qiulu 萩芦 river at the Nanan 南安 weir. From there, the canal runs alongside the river till just north of Jiangkou 江口 town, where it divides into three main channels, one of which continues to flows alongside the Qiulu 萩芦 river into and around Jiangkou township. The other canals bring water through the other multi-village ritual alliances of the irrigated Jiangkou plain, before allowing the water to flow into the Xinghua Bay 兴化 through sluice-gates which are opened and closed depending on the tides. This area was part of three police/defense regions, the Yifangpu 义坊舖, Qinrenpu 亲仁舖 and Qinxiu fangpu 锦绣坊舖, all within the Daixianli 待贤里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Xiaoyi 孝义, Gangxia 港下, Qianhui 前会, Houdun 后墩, Liujing 刘井 and Duweitou 度围头 were settled. In the early Qing, the village of Xinjing 新井 separated off from Houdun 后墩 village. In the Republican period, Houdu 后度 village separated off from Xiaoyi 孝义 village. However, because Houdu village still participates in the Yuanxiao processions of the Xiaoyi Youshengguan temple 孝义佑圣观, there are still only seven independent ritual territories in the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance. The main temple of the Jiangkou sevenfold territory was originally the Zhenjundian 真君殿, dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. This temple was torn down and converted into the Jinjiang 锦江 Middle School in the Republican period. This temple was dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Formerly, on each Yuanxiao festival, the gods of the temple would go on procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Even the palanquins of the Dongyueguan 东岳观 would have to stay overnight in this temple. Since the temple is no longer extent, there is no longer any overall procession for the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance. Nevertheless, each year on the birthday of Sandian Zhenjun 三殿真君 on lunar 6/10, one or two days of opera are performed to honor the god. Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance Jiangkou 江口 has an ancient altar to the soil and the harvest dating to the Song dynasty called the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 in Qianhui 前会 village. This shê altar was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 52 (1787). Each year on lunar 2/2 and on lunar 10/6 (the dates of the tou 头 (beginning) and weiya 尾牙 (ending) rites of the year), people come from all the villages of Jiangkou 江口 to worship at this temple. Jiangkou 江口 originally had thirty-six surname groups, and each surname lived in a defined area. Nowadays only fifteen surname groups remain, and each village is made up of mixed surname groups. However, at the level of the organization of village temple rituals, surname groups are still the primary mode of identification. In the feuding ritual alliances at the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou was part of the white banner alliance. Other significant temples in Jiangkou include a pagoda dedicated to Guanyin midway across a bridge over the Qiulu river that is said to have been founded in the Song (although the bridge was moved in the Ming). The Dongyueguan 东岳观 (Belvedere of the Eastern Peak), situated on the Amoy 厦门 to Foochow 福州 highway, claims to have been founded in the Song dynasty, but underwent a “reconstruction” in the Ming dynasty. The Dongyue guan 东岳观 serves to this day as the higher order temple for all the multi-village ritual alliances of the Jiangkou 江口 irrigated plain. Considerable resources have been invested in this temple from Overseas Chinese branch temples in Indonesia and by individual contributors. Large scaled emigration began in the late Qing, primarily to Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia, and successful sojourners returned to build impressive residences in the early Republican period. Remittances from Overseas Chinese relatives are an important aspect of local economic growth, which has boomed since 1980. The temple preserves many stelae, both ancient and modern, including: 1) Jiaqing 16 (1811) 重修东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:282, No. 246), 2) Jiaqing 18 (1813) 重修东岳观题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:283, No. 247); 3) Tongzhi 1 (1862) 兴化府为文昌东岳行宫示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions at the Auxiliary Temple of the Eastern Peak dedicated to Wenchang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 287); 4) (1922) 重修东岳观题 捐芳名碑 (Stele listing the names of the contributors supporting the repair of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 328), 5) (1922) 重修锦江东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Jinjiang Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 327). Currently, the area is very prosperous, and four-story apartment blocks faced with white tile and with open shop fronts on the ground floor line the roads. Many villages in the Jiangkou area have undergone complete makeovers into something more closely resembling mini-urban developments. In most such cases, the temples have been left in their original locations, although they have been completed rebuilt or renovated two or three times in the past 25 years. Ritual celebrations are exceptionally extravagant, with considerable funding coming from visiting Overseas Chinese relations. The former Party Secretary of Jiangkou reported that, in the early ’80s, he could attend ritual related opera performances 250 days out of the year in the Jiangkou area. 
V660 Xiaoyi 孝义 1. Village settlement Xiaoyi is part of the Jiangkou 江口 town, and of the sevenfold ritual territorial alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current population is over 3000. Xiaoyi is divided into seven shê (altars of the god of the soil and the harvest): the Shoushê 首社 (head she), the East shê 东 社, the Lishê 李社, the Lishê 荔社, the Xiajieshe 霞街社, the Guanqianshê 观前社 and the Houdushê 后度社. The main livelihood is in retail business and shop-keeping. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Li 李, the Ma 马, the Guo 郭, the Zhuo 卓, the Lu 卢, the Weng 翁, and the He 何. The Chen 陈 has the most people, at around 1000 people. Then it would be the Li 李, the He 何, and the Ma 马. It is said that the Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 of Putian 莆田, and are the Chen of Yuhu “玉湖陈”. There was originally a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏宗祠. There is also the newly built Chen Wenlong Memorial Hall 陈文龙纪念馆, built in front of the Youshengguan 佑圣观 in recent years, which is also referred to as the Erxiangtang 二相堂. The ancestral worship activities of each surname group are unknown. A few have, in recent years, rebuilt ancestral halls and begun to revive ancestral worship. 3. Village temples 1) The Youshengguan 佑圣观 is the main temple of the Xiaoyijing 孝义境, which contains the Lingxingshê 灵兴社: Built in the Ming Dynasty (or the Yuan Dynasty), it was renovated during the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1735). The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝. Other gods include San tian duyuanshuai nezha 三天都元帅哪吒, Wuxian huaguang dadi 五显华光大帝 (also known as Zhengyi linggong 正一灵宫) Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Jianlei yushi Zhanggong shengjun 监雷御 史张公圣君 (with the additional title of imperially enfeoffed Sanyuan boji zhenjun 敕封三元溥济真君), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Chengong taiwei 陈公太尉, Tongling Jin dajiangjun 统领 金大将军, Lingxingshê gong ma 灵兴社公妈, and Wang zhongjun 王中军. 2) Xilin temple 西林寺: The stone inscription composed by Dongshi 董史 entitled 西林寺记 (Record of the Western Grove Monastery) is about this temple. (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 214, No. 187). 3) Fushanan 福善庵. (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4) Miaoyuanan 妙源庵 was built during Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The Yuanxiao 元宵 festival is held from 1/12 to 1/15. First and foremost, each shê goes on procession separately. After Yuanxiao, on a day determined by divination, a common procession is held. This procession carries out all the gods, and can include several hundred participants. The procession date for each shê are as follows: On 1/12 Lishê 李社, Dongshê 东社, and Lishê 荔社 go on procession. On 1/13 the Shoushê 首社 goes on procession. On 1/14 Guanqianshê 观前社 and Houdushê 后度社 go on procession. On 1/15 the Xiajieshê 下街社 goes on procession. The head person 福首 selected by each shê is responsible for the procession of the respective shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The board of directors of the Youshengguan 佑圣观 is responsible for the common procession, and contributions are again collected on a per capita basis. Individual voluntary donations are posted on the temple walls. The common procession of 2007 concluded with a bonfire in front of the temple. There, several performing arts processional troupes performed simultaneously, including military brass bands, traditional all female drum-cart and cymbal troupes, shiyinbayue 十音八乐 musical troupes, and finally, a group dance led by the tanban 坛班 spirit mediums. Meanwhile, opera troupes performed on a stage facing the temple. All palanquin bearers, banner and banner carriers, and incense-bearing followers in the procession were rewarded with bags of traditional cookies, fruit, and talismans of the gods. Extraordinary amounts of fireworks were exploded—everything from stings of fireworks to rockets which exploded above the temple all night long. The sedan chairs of the gods charged into the temple through great clouds of smoke, illuminated by the flames of the bonfire and the explosions of the fireworks. Temple guards dressed as Qing yamen guards lined the steps of the temples and temple managers directed the performing arts troupes and crowds of worshippers around the courtyard and inside the temple. Tables strewn with elaborate offerings were lined up in front of the many altars, and worshippers moved around the temple to each altar, bowing, performing kowtows, and offering incense and then taking stacks of sprit money to burn in a incinerator in the shape of a gourd in the courtyard outside the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 (worshipped at Donglaisi 东来寺). 3/3: The birthday celebrations for Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. 8/15: The birthday celebrations for Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Shêgong 社公 Shêma 社妈, and Wang zhongjun 王中军. The board of directors of the temple are responsible for organizing the ritual, the feast, and the opera performance. Each shê collects contributions on a per capita basis. There are also voluntary personal donations towards opera performances and transfers from Overseas Chinese. All the birthday celebrations of the other gods are each the responsibility of individual she: 2/13: The celebration of the celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is organized by Xiajieshê 下街社. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dongshê 东社. 4/18: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元师 is organized by Lishê 荔社. 5/18: The celebration of Chen taiwei 陈太尉 is organized by Shoushê 首社. 6/17: The celebration of Kang yuanshuai 康元帅 is organized by Shoushê 首社. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Dongshê 东社. 9/28: The celebration of Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 is organized by Lishê 李社. 9/13: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Guanqianshê 观前社. 7/23: The celebration of Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅 is organized by Houdushê 后度社. Each shê receives funds from Overseas Chinese to be used for The birthday celebrations. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or by personal donations for additional opera performances. 5. Ritual Groups Youshengguan 佑圣观 currently has over 200 members of its Tanban 坛班 (altar association), but guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has not occurred. It is said that in the past, people had died during guanjie. On lunar 10/24 of 1967, an Anxiang yingsheng dadian 安香迎圣 大典 (great rite to invite the sages with offerings of incense) was held for the Lidai gutan 历代古坛 (ancient altar dedicated to the spirit mediums of the past). Xiaoyi 孝义 village used to have a Sanjiao (Three in One) temple 三教祠, but later it was disassembled and merged into Youshengguan 佑 圣观. The saying goes: “The Xiaoyi temple sold the Sanjiaoci to buy lumber” (Xiaoyigong maisanjiaoci maimuliao) “孝义宫卖三教祠买木料”. The disciples of the Sanjiao (the Three-in-One) mostly go to the major Sanjiao temple called the Shangyang shuyuan 尚阳书院 of Qiaowei of Fuqing 福 清桥尾, across the bridge over the Qiulu river, to attend rituals. There is also another Buddhist temple in the village, the Miaoyuanan 妙源庵, which worships Guanyin 观音, Mazu 妈祖, Weituo 韦陀, and Jialan 伽蓝. This nunnery has one temple master (Zhuchi) 住持 and one nun (Nigu) 尼姑. Attached to Youshengguan 佑圣观 is a cultural center (wenhuagong) 文化 宫 which has a library and entertainment facilities. The center has a board of director, an elder’s committee and an Overseas Chinese construction fund which is responsible for village construction projects related to irrigation, roadwork, and electrical lines. 
V661 Xiahoudu 下后度 1. Village settlement Xiahoudu is a neighborhood of Xiaoyi 孝义. The village is a settlement for the He 何 surname group. Together with Shanghoudu 上后度, it is one of the shê of the sevenfold shê of Xiaoyi 孝义七社. There is a relatively independent neighborhood temple called Xinxingdian 新兴 殿. There are currently approximately 300 people in this neighborhood. The main livelihood is agriculture and shop keeping. 2. Surname groups The He 何 of Xiahoudu are divided into six branches, of which four branches gradually emigrated to various villages in Jiangkou 江口 including Xinjing 新井, Gangxia 港下, Houdu 后度, and Jingtou 井头 during the Ming Dynasty. Later on, these four branches gradually returned to settle here, and are called the He of Lujiang “卢江何氏”. The other two branches moved in more recently. It is said that the Xinxingdian 新兴殿 was constructed to mark the establishment in this area of the Lujiang 卢江 He 何 surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingdian 新兴殿 is dedicated to the worship of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaoshun shengwang 昭顺圣王, and Dikui 地魁. The statue of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is placed in Youshengguan 佑圣观, and is only carried back to the home temple during Yuanxiao 元宵 so that every household can worship the god. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions Xiahoudu 下后度 participates in the common procession of Youshengguan 佑圣观 and the procession of Houdushê 后度社. None of the gods of Xinxingdian 新兴殿 go on procession. However, the statue of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 can be carried to the homes of each household for worshipping purposes. On 1/13 Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated by the older four branches of the He 何 surname group. On 1/15, Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated by the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on 7/23 is the most grand. Opera is usually performed for several days. A group of the eldest residents, called “county elders” (Xianlao) 县老 serve as the head persons (Touren) 头人 in charge of the ritual activities. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Transfers from Overseas Chinese are also made at times. Apart from these celebrations, marionette plays are also usually performed for the birthday celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. For the other the birthday celebrations of the other deities, there is a feast set up inside the temple with worship offerings. 5. Ritual Groups This temple originally had Shentong 神童 mediums. Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 could all descend ( jiangshen) 降神 to possess them. There are still a number of old Tanban 坛班 altar associates, but guanjie 关戒 has not occurred yet due to a lack of funds. The village has a Buddhist nunnery called the Fuluan 福禄庵, which has existed for more than a century. Now only one nun is the temple master. 
V662 Liujing 刘井 1. Village settlement Liujing belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. The current population is over 1300 people. Liujing is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current population is approximately 1300. The village used to be divided into two neighborhoods, Qianshê 前社 and Houshê 后社, but now they are all mixed in with each other and the boundaries are not clear. The village has been re-divided into six jia 六甲, each bearing the name of a god: these are Zhugongjia 朱公 甲, Ligongjia 李公甲, Zhanggongjia 张公甲, Hangongjia 韩公甲, Magongjia 马公甲, and Chengongjia 陈公甲. The main livelihood is commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Lin 林, the Zhuo 卓, the Weng 翁, the Cai 蔡, the Wu 吴, the Fang 方, and the Wang 王. The Lin 林 has an ancestral hall. The Chen has a combined ancestral hall with the Chen 陈 of Yuhu 玉湖 of Xiaoyi 孝义. The origins and worshipping rituals of all other surname groups are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Chongqingguan 崇清观 is within Jinxiufang 锦锈 坊 and contains the Xiaotiyunshê 校梯云社 as well as the Linzhenshê 麟 振社. The temple was built during the Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795), and was renovated in 1983. There is a stele dedicated to the ancient altar of the (spirit mediums) of the past. The commemorative stele describing renovations is dated 1984. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝 and Dufu tongbing Zhu yuanshuai 都副统兵朱元帅. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai Li 都天元帅李, Fatian shengjun Zhang 法天圣君 张, Zhengyi lingguan Han 正一灵官韩, Ma 马, Chen 陈, and Zhu 朱, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and the two pairs of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Tiyunshê 梯云 社 and Linzhenshê 麟振社. Mazu 妈祖 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 originally had their own temples which belong to the Zhuo 卓 surname group, but these temples were abandoned later on and the gods moved to the right side hall of this temple. This is known as the Zhuo 卓 of Liujing 刘井 selling off the temple to carve the sedan chair “卖宫雕轿”. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions In the first month, a procession is held for one day on a day determined by divination in. The main gods and the other gods of the neighborhoods participate in the procession. The order of the procession is “first the generals, then the great gods”. The procession goes through the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境 to visit all the villages of Jiangkou in order. The elders who are married and those who have a child born to them that year become the head persons (Touren) 头人. Apart from the per capita based contribution collections, the head persons are responsible for absorbing the additional expenses. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following god’s birthdays are organized by the village as a whole: 2/25 and 9/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zhugong 朱公. The most grand birthday celebration is that of the “temple master” 宫主 Zhugong 朱公. Opera is performed for several days. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. All other gods have their own celebrations organized by each jia 甲: 4/14: The birthday celebration of Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 is organized by the Wang 王 and the Fang 方 of Magongjia 马公甲. 4/14: The birthday celebration of Chen taiwei 陈太尉 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Chengongjia 陈公甲. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong 张公 is organized by the Lin 林 and the Zhuo卓 of Zhanggongjia 张公甲. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zhugong 朱公 is organized by the Weng 翁, Wu 吴, and Chen 陈 of Zhugongjia 朱公甲. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Hangong 韩公 is organized by the Liu 刘 of Hangongjia 韩公甲. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Zhuo 卓, Cai 蔡, Weng 翁, and Lin 林 of Ligongjia 李公甲. Each jia 甲 selects its own head persons (Touren) 头人 to organize The birthday celebrations of the gods. Opera is usually performed for two to three days using either transfers from Overseas Chinese or contributions collected on a per capita basis. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 do not have the birthday celebrations. 5. Ritual Groups The village has an ancient altar dedicated to spirit mediums of the past. The current number of Shentong 神童 is unknown. Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times. Zhugong 朱公 and Zhanggong 张公 all 降 神 to possess mediums. The village has a Catholic church which is the main church for Jiangkou. 
V663 Qianhui 前会 1. Village settlement Qianhui is part of the Jiangkou township 江口居委 会 and the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. There are currently more than 300 residents. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is commerce and industry. There are over a hundred Overseas Chinese in the village. 2. Surname groups The village is inhabited by mixed surname groups. Surnames include the Wang 王, the Liu刘, the Dong 董, the Lu 卢, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, and the Shê 佘. The Dong 董 and the Lu 卢 are among the earliest surname groups to settle in the village. The early Sanjiao (Three in One) disciple 三一教传人 Dongzhian 董直庵 was from this village. No further information is available as to collective lineage worship. 3. Village temples 1) Miaoyinggong 妙应宫 contains the Xingchunshê 兴春社: The date of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated in Qing Tongzhi 2 (1863) and in 1982. The main god worshipped, Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, is said to be the Tang high monk 唐代高僧 Huang Miaoying 黄妙应 who attained nirvana at the nearby Nangshansi 囊山寺. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王 (Zhang Xun 张巡), Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 (Leiwanchun 雷万 春), Beidou shengwang 北斗圣王 (Xu Yuan 许远), Jin dajiangjun 金大将 军 (Huweishen 护卫神, Simengjiang 四猛将 (Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Qiu 邱, and Liu 刘), Sitongzi 四童子, Mazu 妈祖, Guanyin 观音, Hufa jialan 护法伽 蓝, Zhaoshun shengwang 昭顺圣王 (Jiang Guojiu 江国舅), Ansheng lingfei 安圣灵妃 (Jiang Meifei 江梅妃), Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions In the first month, the Yuanxiao procession is held on a day determined by divination. The procession passes through the ritual alliance. Four or five head persons (touren) 头人 are selected to be responsible for purchasing supplies and organizing the event, as well as last minute organization of staff. Twelve sedan chairs of the gods are carried. Funds are collected on a per household basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 4/7 and 8/23: The birthday celebrations for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 are held. Opera is performed for several days. Each household contributes 1 yuan 元 per capita. There are also transfers from Overseas Chinese and personal donations. The birthday celebrations of the other gods only have a feast set up with offerings. 5. Ritual Groups There are currently more than ten Tanban 坛班 altar associates. Guanjie 关戒 has not taken place. Incense is invited from Putian city 莆田, probably from the main temple dedicated to Tiangong Yuanshuai 田公元帅, the Ruiyundian 瑞云殿. 
V664 Duweitou 度围头 1. Village settlement Duweitou village belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Duweitou is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. There are currently approximately 600 inhabitants. The entire village has four shê 社, which are Sheshê 佘社 (this has become a shê with mixed surname groups, with more than 200 people), Chenshê 陈社 (this too has become a shê with mixed surname groups, more than 200 people), Guoshê 郭社 (this has more than 300 people), and Caishê 蔡社 (where the dominate surname group today is the Wang 王, with more than 100 people). The main livelihoods are agriculture and fishery. There are approximately 800 Overseas Chinese living abroad connected to this village. 2. Surname groups The earlier settlers include the Shê 佘, the Chen 陈, the Guo 郭, and the Cai 蔡. Later on, the Zhuang 庄, the Dai 戴, and the Wang 王 also moved in. The origins of each surname group, their population size and branch information is unknown. There are no ancestral halls or lineage genealogies. 3. Village temples 1) Qingdatang 清达堂 is part of the Jinjiang Longmenfang 锦江龙门坊, and contains the Longxingshê 龙兴社. According to the 重建清达堂碑序 (Preface to the stele for the reconstruction of Qingdatang), the temple was originally built during the Song Dynasty. It was renovated three times, in Qing Kangxi 60 (1721), Qianlong 25 (1760), and during the Jiaqing period (1796–1820). It was rebuilt in 1990. The main god worshipped is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Other gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 (Chenshê 陈社), Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王 (Chenshê 陈社), Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 (Caishê 蔡 社), Wu’anwang 武按王 (Guoshê 郭社), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (Sheshê 佘社), Liumihou 六弥猴 (Sheshê 佘社), Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Yuanxiao is celebrated and fu 符 talismans are distributed to each household; On 1/14, a procession is held. Every year, each shê take turns to play the following roles: one becomes the chief manager 总理, one takes care of the kitchens, one is in charge of purchases, and one is in charge of setting up the worshipping tables (for offerings to be placed on). Each year these duties rotate. Funds are collected on a per capita basis and from Fushou households 福首户. There are also transfers from Oveseas Chinese. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25 and on 9/25: The birthday celebrations for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the entire village. Each jia 甲 has two board members, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/25: An additional birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Sheshê 佘社. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the entire village. 6/10: The birthday celebration of Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 is organized by the Chenshê 陈社. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Wu’anwang 武按王 is organized by the Guoshê 郭社. 7/13: The birthday celebration of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is organized by the Caishê 蔡社. Each shê supplies contributions according to the number of people. Opera is performed for several days. 5. Ritual Groups The village has a 历代古坛 ancient altar of the spirit mediums of the past. There are currently 36 Tanban 坛班 altar associates, and guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has occurred. The traditional order (Guli) 古例 was revived on lunar 1/ 25 of 1987. All the members 诸 道友 of different generations of Tanban 坛班 members were divided into 11 jiu 阄 (shares), and take turns to 当家 look after the ritual needs of the temple. Each jiu (share) is made up of three people. Those not serving in the temple are in charge of the purchases for the ritual. There is Gongcaohui “功 曹会” (Association of the Spirit Officials), that is, a common gathering of the Tanban 坛班总集会, during Yuanxiao 元宵. There is also Fushouyan “福首 宴”, that is, every household contributes donation to collectively organize and pay for the offerings. In 1987, there were 118 Fushou 福首. During the Republican period, the village had a few small temples, but they no longer exist. There is a Cishouan “慈寿庵” in which the main god worshipped is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. There used to be fifteen nuns with 4–5 acres of land. Now it is run by by three old nuns. 
V665 Gangxia 港下 1. Village settlement Gangxia belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Gangxia is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current population is close to 1500 people, and is divided into five shê: Chenshê 陈社 has approximately 40 households; Heshê 何社 has more than 90 households; Zhuoshê 卓社 has 33 households; Zhongshê 中社 has close to 50 households, with surnames including the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, the Zhang 张, and the Guo 郭; and Wenmingshê 文明社 has approximately 50 households, with surnames including the Fang 方, Shê 佘, Kong 孔, and Li 李. The main livelihood is fishing. 80% of the local population are dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The earliest settlers were the Chen 陈, the He 何, and the Zhuo 卓. The He has the most people, followed by the Chen and the Zhuo. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口, and are known as the Chen of Yuhu 玉湖陈. They have an ancestral hall called Xiuyuantang 秀源堂. They also take part in the ritual activities of the Erxiangtang 二相堂 ancestral hall in Xiaoyi 孝义. The origins of all the other surname groups are unknown. The Zhuo 卓 ancestral hall has been abandoned. 3. Village temples 1) The Fuhaitang 福海堂 contains the Ningjiangshê 宁江社. According to the stele recording the reconstruction, the temple was originally called Fuhaian 福海庵. It is claimed that the temple was originally built in the Northern Song in Jianlong 1 (960), and was renamed as a “tang” 堂 in Ming Wanli 8 (1580). The temple was renovated once during the Qianlong period, and once after 1981. The main gods worshipped are Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君) and Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 (Zhongshê 中社), Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 (Wenmingshê 文明社), Xiaogong shenghou 肖公 圣侯 (Heshê 何社), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (Chenshê 陈社), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 (Zhuoshê 卓社), Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 (Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Linshui furen 临水夫人), Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Hufa jialan 护法伽蓝, Guan gong 关公, Weituo 韦驮, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Fude zhengshen 福德正 神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Jingong dutong 金公都统, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianpeng yuanshuai 天蓬元帅, Jixiang erjiang 吉祥二将, Qingjin zhenren 青巾真人, and Jinshi xiangu 金氏仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions In the first month, on a day determined by divination, the Yuanxiao 元宵 procession is held for one day. The procession passes through the sevenfold ritual alliance, and it is hosted by the five shê one by one, the first and last household of the hosting shê are those of the head persons 头人. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held, and the entire village organizes the celebration. Opera is performed ten times. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. There are also transfers from Overseas Chinese and voluntary contributions. 3/23 and 9/9: The birthday celebrations for Tianhou 天后 are held. 4/13: The birthday celebrations for Liugong 刘公 is organized by the Zhuoshê 卓社. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Shêgong 社公 is held. Each household prepares offerings in the temple. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Xiaogong 肖公 is organized by the Heshê 何社. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong 张公 is organized by the Chenshê 陈社. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Wenmingshê 文明社. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Zhongshê 中社. The birthday celebrations of the gods are hosted by the first and last households of the hosting shê. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is performed for several days. Opera is not performed for the other birthday celebrations. Worship offerings are organized by the village temple. 5. Ritual Groups Fuhaitang 福海堂 has a 历代古坛 ancient altar of the (spirit mediums of) of the past. According to the stone inscription from 1935, there were then a total of eight Shentong 神童 spirit mediums. In recent years, guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred once. The number of members of the Tanban 坛班 altar association is unknown. The village originally had a Sanjiaoci 三教祠 and a Buddhist nunnery 尼姑, but now they no longer exist. 
V666 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun belongs to the Jingkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Houdun is one of the sevenfold ritual territories of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current population is approximately 1400 people, and the vil   lage is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Jiucuo 旧厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Beitoucuo 北头厝 and Xincuo 新厝. The main livelihoods are fishing and commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups Houdun originally was made up of the Zheng 郑 and the He 何 surname groups, but later the He moved away. Today, the main surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Ma 马 and the Guo 郭. The Zheng 郑 are divided into four zhu 柱 groupings according to their locations: Jiucuo 旧厝, Xincuo 新厝, Xiacuo 下厝, and Beitoucuo 北 头厝. There is no ancestral hall or lineage genealogy, and lineage rituals are not practiced. Being surname groups that have only moved into the village in recent years, both the Ma 马 and the Guo 郭 have relatively less people in comparison with other surname groups. Together, the two surnames create one relatively independent ritual group. 3. Village temples 1) Lutaigong 炉台宫 is part of Houdunfang 后墩坊 and contains the Longjinshê 龙津社. The year of the original construction is unknown. The temple was renovated in 1982. The main god worshipped is Wuxian lingguan Ma yuanshuai 五显灵官马元帅 (Huaguang dadi 华 光大帝). Other gods include Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 (belongs to Beitoucuo 北头厝), Wugong dutong 吴公都统 (belongs to Jiucuo 旧厝), Tongling Jin dajiangjun 统领金大将军 (belongs to the Shentong 神童), Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 (belongs to Xiacuo 下厝), Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 (belongs to the Ma 马 and Guo 郭 surname groups), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (belongs to Xincuo 新厝), Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Zhenggong shenghou 郑公圣侯 (belongs to Xiacuo 下 厝), Huye jiangjun 虎爷将军, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao In the first month, on a day determined by divination, a procession is held within the sevenfold ritual alliance for a day. The four jia 甲 take turns to be the host. Each jia also contributes three to five people to be part of the administration of the event. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is organized by the Shentong 神童 spirit mediums. The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Ma and the Guo 郭 surname groups. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian lingguan Ma yuanshuai 五显灵 官马元帅 is held. The worshipping is organized all together. Opera is performed, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. There are transfers from Overseas Chinese and personal donations. 5/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Xincuo jia 新厝甲. 6/6: The birthday celebrations for Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 is organized by Beitoucuo 北头厝. The birthday celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and Zhenggong shenghou 郑公圣侯 is organized by the Jiucuo 旧厝. All other the birthday celebrations are organized all together by the temple. Opera is usually not performed. For the birthday celebrations for Mazu 妈祖 and Guanyin 观音, each household takes care of its own offerings. There are also personal donations for operas and movies. 5. Ritual Groups Lutaigong 炉台宫 has a lidai gutan 历代古坛 (ancient altar of the spirit mediums through the ages). Eight Shentong 神童 spirit medium’s names are listed in a stele dating to 1982. In recent years, guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred at least once. The number of Tanban 坛班 altar associates is unknown. 
V667 Xinjing 新井 1. Village settlement Xingjing belongs to the Jiangkou Administrative Village 江口行政村. Xinjing is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. There are currently approximately 300 people, and the village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何. Other surname groups include the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林 and the Li 李. It is said that the He 何 of Xinjing 新井 are the earliest residents of Jiangkou 江口. Their descendents are dispersed in several villages throughout the Jiangkou 江口 region. There is a Lin 林 ancestral hall that has been recently rebuilt. 3. Village temples 1) Fengchigong 凤池宫 is located within Jinjiang fengchifang 锦江凤池坊 and contains the Longjin beishê 龙津北社. This temple branched out from the Lutaigong 炉台宫. Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt during Qing Qianlong period (1736– 1795), and was renovated in 1927 and in 1982. The main gods worshipped are Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 and Yishan dadi 意山大帝. Secondary gods worshipped are Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王, Zhonggong dutong 郑公都统, Wugong dutong 吴公都 统, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Hugong jiangjun 虎公将军, Dongxi shizhe 东西使者, Panguan jijiang 判官吉将, Zunzhu mingwang 尊 主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Wenwu zhujiang 文武诸将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions There are no processions. Decorated towers 彩楼 are constructed to welcome the arrival of the gods from each temple. On 1/15, a feast is organized to worship the gods. Funds are collected on a per household basis, and it is organized all together. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Jinda jiangjun 金大将军 is held. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 is held. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Yishan dadi 意山大帝 is held. A feast is set up to worship the gods. Opera is performed for two to three days each time. Funds are collected on a per household basis. There are also personal donations. 
A148 Fushan qijing (Fushan sevenfold ritual alliance) 凫山七境 The Fushan sevenfold ritual alliance is located within the Nanan Weir 南安 陂引水渠, alongside the main upper channel drawing water into the Jiuliyang irrigation system 九里洋上沟. This area was part of the Qianwangpu 前王铺 (police/defense unit) of Daishengli 待贤里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Qianwang 前王, Guanhou 观后 (Shishi 石狮) and Shaohui 烧 灰 (Shangkui 上魁) were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shantou 山头, Youlong 游陇 (Youlan 油岚), Qiangli 墙里 and Dixin 递新 separated off. Of these villages, Qiangli 墙里 and Dixin 递新 have already been abandoned. Currently there are five villages in the area. The Fushanshê 凫山社 temple, located in Qianwang 前王 village, is the founding she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公圣君, Dutian yuanshuia 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Originally there were joint Yuanxiao processions and collective celebrations of the birthday celebrations of the gods at the Fushanshê. More recently, the gods of the Fushanshê have been distributed to each village she-altar to be worshipped locally, and there no longer are common rituals held in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages Qiangwang 前王, Shantou 山头, Shishi 石灰 and Youlan were all members of the white banner alliance, while Shihui was a member of the black banner alliance. During the Ming, Qianwang 前王 was famous for its successful examination candidates. The Zhuang 庄 and the Wang lineages together produced four Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) and one Juren (Provincial Candidate). Fushan sevenfold ritual alliance (
V668 Qianwang 前王) 1. Village settlement Qianwang is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山七境. It belongs to the Xinqian Administrative Village 新前 行政村. There are more than 1000 people living in the village. It is divided into the following neighborhoods: Beitou 陂头, Houcheng 后埕, Wumen 乌门, and Liudong 六冬. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wang 王. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Xiao 肖, Huang 黄, Liu 刘, and Quan 全. The Wang are the earliest settlers of the village. It is said that during the Ming and the Qing dynasties, members of the Wang held political office for eighteen generations, and that they held special power over the Nanan 南安 weir and its irrigation channels. There is an ancestral hall common to the entire surname group, but its ritual practices are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Fushanshê 凫山社: Originally the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance, it now belongs to Qianwang village 前王村. The gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong shengjun 康公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Qingjingtan 清静坛 contains the Yiyi zushê 仪依祖社. The original date of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated in 1915. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣 君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Wenxingshê 文兴社: The main god is Shuitou wang 水头王 (Tang san zang 唐三藏). Other gods include Wangfu 王父, Wangmu 王母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (Sun Wukong), Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 ( Ju Bajie), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Cibeigong 慈 悲公 (Liumihou 六猕猴), Heibaijiang 黑白将 4) Putuo’an Buddhist nunnery 普陀庵 originally belonged to the Gufengsi nunnery 鼓峰寺廨院尼庵. A memorial arch “Zhijie xingfang” 志洁行芳 at the nunnery was inscribed by President of the National Government Lin Sen 林森. In 1986, training courses for Buddhist nuns were set up here. (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 5) Donglaisi Buddhist temple 东来寺. The temple has preserved an stele entitled (Record of the reconstruction of Shrine in Remembrance of the virtuous merit of those who constructed and repaired the Nanan Weir), dating to Qinglong 57 (1792) (PTZJZCG, 1992:210) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 261, No. 224). 6) Jimingtang 济明堂 was built in Guangxu 6 (1880) (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, gods go on procession for one day. It used to be that each jia 甲 selected one head person (Touren) to be the host. Now, the event is co-organized by the board of directors and the Tanban 坛班, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Hei bai jiang 黑白将 is organized by Houchengfang 后埕房. 6/8: The celebration of Shuitou wang 水头王 is organized by Liudongfang 六冬房. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong 张公 is organized by Biandongfang 便 东房. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the entire village. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Wumenfang 乌门房. The birthday celebration of Liumihou 六猕猴 is organized by Beitou 陂头. 5. Ritual Groups The village has more than ten old tanban 坛班 altar association members. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred in recent years. 
V669 Shihui 石灰 1. Village settlement Shihui was originally known as Shangkui 上魁 and Shaohui 烧灰. Shuihui is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山 七境 and belongs Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行政村. The village currently has 380 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the You 游, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, and the Quan 全. The You are the earliest settlers of the village. It is said that the You emigrated from Tongan 同安 in the late-Song dynasty. The origins of the other surnames are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenwudian 真武殿 in the Shangkuijing 上魁境 contains the Mingxingshê 民兴社. The temple was originally constructed in the Yuan Dynasty. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 (branched out from Fushanshê 凫山 社), Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Kanggong yuanshuai 康 公元帅, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元 帅 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 go on procession for one day. Each year, four head persons are selected to be the hosts. Birthday celebrations of the gods The birthday celebrations of the gods are organized all together. Opera is usually not performed. 
V670 Shantou 山头 1. Village settlement Shantou is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山七境. Shantou is part of the Xinqian Administrative Village 新前行政村. There are currently more than 100 people living in the village. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wang 王, Huang 黄, and Liu 刘. The Wang emigrated from Qianwang 前王. There currently are only a few households of the Huang and the Liu surname groups, but their origins are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Cangshanshê 苍山社: The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军 (Baiya zhongjun 白 牙中军). Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu shenghou 柳 圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Mituo dasheng 弥陀大圣, and Panguan jishi 判官圣使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Daoist Masters 师公 are invited to conduct a Daochang 道场. There is no procession of the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods On the birthdays of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Lingya zhongjun 灵牙 中军, offerings and worship are organized by the Gonggong 宫公 (temple keeper). Opera is not performed. 
V671 Youlan 油岚 1. Village settlement Youlan is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山七境. Youlan is part of the Xinqian Administrative Village 新 前行政村. There are currently more than 380 people in the village, and are divided into four neighborhoods: Qiangnei 墙内, Houying 后营, Xiacuo 下厝, and Weicuo 尾厝. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李 and the Guo 郭. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Guan 关. Their origins are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxianshê 兴贤社: The original date of construction is unknown. It is said that this is the oldest Taishifu 太师府 in the area. The main gods worshipped are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qiu jiangjun 邱将军, Liu taibao 刘太保, Chen taibao 陈太保, Zou dutong 邹都统, and Panguan jishi 判官吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 goes on a procession through the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨太师 is organized by the whole village. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Li 李 of Qiannei 前内. 7/7: The celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is organized by the Li 李 of Houying 后营. 7/13: The celebration of Beidou zhongtian 北斗中天 is organized by the Li 李 of Xiacuo 下厝. 9/19: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Guo 郭 of Weicuo 尾厝. 
V672 Shishi 石狮 1. Village settlement Shishi was originally called Guanhou 观后. Shishi is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fushan 凫山七境. The village is part of the Shishi Administrative Village 石狮行政村. Shishi is subdivided into natural villages such as Shandou 山兜, Shihuan 狮环, Shipaihou 石牌后 and Sishui 泗水. The total population is approximately 4000 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The village has surnames such as the Xue 薛, Chen 陈, Dai 戴, Lin 林, and Zheng 郑. The Xue and the Chen live in Shiqiu 狮 球, while the Dai 戴 live in Shipaihou 石牌后, and the Lin 林 and the Zheng 郑 live in Sishui 泗水. The Dai has a lineage genealogy and had moved from Tongan 同安 during the late-Ming dynasty. The origins of the other surnames are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Fenglaigong 凤来宫 was built during the Ming dynasty. The gods worshipped are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Kuixing Wu yuanshuai 魁星武元 帅, Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2) Xinglongshê 兴隆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 3) Jiangshengdian 降盛殿 is in Sishui 泗水 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4) Yujingdian 玉晶殿 in Shipaihou 石牌后 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Xilaisi Buddhist temple 西来寺 is a branch temple of the Gufeng monastery 鼓峰寺. This temple was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908) by Buddhist monk Huairen 怀仁 and was rebuilt by overseas Chinese in 1989. (PTZJZCG, 1992:212). 6) Tianhusi Buddhist temple 天湖寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:212). 7) Linyunting Buddhist pagoda 凌云亭 (PTZJZCG, 1992:212). 8) Jiyuantang Buddhist hall 济源堂 was built in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992: 212). 9) Shunyutang 顺玉堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 33 records 107 initiates. 10) Xiangshansi Buddhist temple 香山寺 was originally built in the Tang and rebuilt in the Shunzhi period (1644–1661) (PTZJZCG, 1992:211). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, a common procession is held. On 1/15, a Baojingjiao 保境醮 (Daoist communal sacrifice to protect the boundaries of the village) is performed. These events are hosted by the Tanban 坛班 altar association. Those that give voluntary donations becomes Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the 戴 of Shandou 山兜. 2/25: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 organized by the Xue 薛 and the Chen 陈 of Shiqiu 狮球. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the 戴 of Shandou 山兜. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅is organized by Shipaihou 石牌后. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Xue 薛 and the Chen 陈 of Shiqiu 狮球. 8/9: The celebration of Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 is organized by Shipaihou 石牌后. 8/20: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xue 薛 and the Chen 陈 of Shiqiu 狮球. 9/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 are organized by the Lin 林 and the Zheng 郑 of Sishui 泗水. 5. Ritual Groups Fenglaigong 凤来宫 has forty-four members of its Tanban 坛班 altar association, of which there are fourteen shentong 神童 for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, thirteen for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, thirteen for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and four for Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred twice, in the 9th lunar month of 1985, and in the 10th lunar month of 1991. 
A149 Goushang qijing (Goushang sevenfold ritual alliance) 沟上七境 The Goushang sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the lower main channel of the Jiuliyang irrigation system 九里洋下沟. This area was part of the Dongshê Donglipu 东佘 东利铺 (police/defense unit) of Daixianli 待贤里 sub-canton In the Ming, the villages of Goushang 沟上 (Houyou 后枯), Chendun 陈墩 (Dingdun 顶墩), Xiadun 下墩, Wudun 吴墩, Xindun 新墩 and Youdun 游墩 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Zheche 蔗 车 and Houchengpu 后埕埔 separated off from Goushang 沟上 village. The villages of Qianmian 前面, Xindian 新店, Licuo 李厝 and Tianzhongyang 田中央 separated off from Xindun 新墩 village in the late Qing. The Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 temple, located in Qianmian 前面 village, was the founding she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Towards the end of the Qing, this altar underwent a process of division of she-altars, in which all the villages that had originally belonged to it set up their own village shealtars. These include the Jifushê 集福社 of Youdun 游墩, Dingdun 顶墩 and Xiadun 下墩 and the Xinxingshê 新兴社 of Houku 后枯, Licuo 李厝, Xindun 新墩 and Houchengpu 后埕埔. Nowadays, the Jiaxianshê no longer carries out collective rituals or processions. Each village carries out its own rituals and processions, but nonetheless still goes to the founding she-altar to request incense fire 请香火. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Goushang 沟上, Qianmian 前面, Xindun 新墩, Dingdun 顶墩, Xindian 新店, Zheche 蔗车 and Houchengpu 后埕埔 were part of the black banner alliance, while the villages of Licuo 李厝, Wudun 吴墩, Xiadun 下墩 and Youdun 游墩 were part of the white banner alliance. 
V673 Goushang 沟上 1. Village settlement Goushang was originally names Houku 后枯. Goshang is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. There are currently more than 3000 people. The village is divided into five she: inGoushang sevenfold ritual alliance Sheanshê 佘安社, the main surname group is the Shê 佘; in Lipushê 荔谱 社, the main surname group is the Cai 蔡, but there are also the Huang 黄, Zhang 张, and Lin 林; in Xiheshê 西河社 the main surname group is the Lin 林, but there is also the Wu 吴; in Jiyangshê 济阳社, the main surname group is the Cai 蔡; in Yanlingshê 延陵社, the main surname group is the Wu 吴. The main livelihoods are agriculture and aquaculture (mainly oysters and other shellfish) in the inner sea. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shê 佘, the Li 李, the Cai 蔡, the Lin 林, and the Wu 吴. The Shê 佘 are the earliest settlers of the village. Now the majority of them have moved to Zheche village 蔗车. The Li 李 emigrated from Baitang 白塘 of Hanjiang 涵江. They originally lived in Xiacuo 下厝. Later, the Li formed an independent village named Licuo 李厝. The Cai 蔡 emigrated from Dongsha 东沙 of Lingchuan 灵川. The majority live in Tianzhongyang 田中央 and Houchengpu 后埕埔. They originally had a village temple, but it now belongs to Xindun village 新墩. There are some tens of Cai households. 3. Village temples 1) Weixianmiao 威显庙 is within the Houkujing 后枯 境 spiritual territory, and contains the Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was originally built during the Ming Dynasty, and was renovated in 1983. The main god worshipped is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Other gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Sihai longwang 四 海龙王, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统, Liugong taibao 刘公太保, Chengong sheren 陈公舍人, Qiugong jiangjun 邱公将军, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Jianyin tongzi 剑印童子, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and four dutong 都统, namely Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Qiu 邱, and Liu 刘, who are subordinate to Sima shengwang. 2) Zishanmiao 紫云庙 contains the Qingyuntang 庆云堂 and originally belonged to the entire Houku 后枯 village. Now it is administrated by Yanlingshê 延陵社. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Peng taishan 彭泰山. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Mazu 妈祖, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and the main gods of each shê go on procession within the village for two days. The five shê take turns to be the host. Each shê has Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 descend into the Shentong 神童 to select two Fushou 福首 (fortunate headsmen). The Fushou have to provide a feast for the Tanban 坛班. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/22: The celebration for Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 is organized by Yanlingshê 延陵社. 3/23: The celebration for Mazu 妈祖 is organized by the entire village. 5/13: The celebration for Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Sheanshê 佘安社. 7/ 3: The celebration for Chengong sheren 陈公舍人 is organized by Sheanshê 佘安社. 7/7: The celebration for Wu’an shengwang 武按圣王 is held. 7/13: The celebration for Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is organized by the Lipushê 荔谱社. 8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Yanlingshê 延陵社. 9/14: The celebration for Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by the Jiyangshê 济阳社. 9/14: The celebration for Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统 and Jin dajiangjun 金大将军 is organized by Xiheshê 西河社. 9/15: The celebration for Liugong taibao 刘公太保 is organized by Lipushê 荔谱社. The celebrations at each shê usually entails several days of opera performance. The ritual is mostly organized by the Fushou 福首, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. All other birthday celebrations only have a feast set up with the worship offerings. No opera is performed. As for the birthday celebrations for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Peng taishan 彭泰山 carried out by the Qingyuntang 庆云堂, the Yanlingshê 延陵社 organizes the offerings and rituals. Marionette plays are mostly performed. 5. Ritual Groups The Weixianmiao 威显庙 preserves a stele inscribed 古坛禄位碑 which records the ranks and names of the mediums worshipped at the ancient altar. In 1919, for the three generations bearing the respective names Wen 文, Yuan 元, and Fu 福, there were a total of twenty-seven people. In 1983, the three generational names of Guang 光, De 德, and Zhu 智 had a total of fifty-eight people. There are currently more than twenty Tanban 坛班. There is also a Director of the Tanban 总坛长. Each shê has several Shentong 神童 mediums, who start to learn xingnuo 行傩 collective exorcistic dance, nianzhou 念咒 the singing of invocations and spells, and huafu 画符 the writing of talismans, starting at the age of thirteen or fourteen. Guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has occurred several times. Wuan 武 按, Beidou 北斗, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and the four Generals Liu 刘, Zheng 郑, Jin 金, and Chen 陈 have descended to possess mediums. The village has a Ruiguangge 瑞光阁. The main god worshipped is Sizhou wenfo 泗州文佛. It is said that tinggua “听卦” (prognostication while listening during offerings of incense) is most efficacious at this temple. This temple preserves a stele composed in Jaiqing 18 (1813) entitled 重修瑞光阁题捐碑 (Stele listing the contributions towards the restoration of the Temple of Auspicious Radiance) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:291, No. 253). The villagers worship there freely. There is also the Yuhetang 玉和堂, which is a Three in One temple 三一教祠. There are currently more than sixty initiates 门人. 
V674 Zheche 蔗车 1. Village settlement Zheche belongs to the Haixing Administrative Village 海星行政村. The residents emigrated from Houku 后枯. There are currently more than 200 people who are not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Shê 佘. It is divided into four branches. The ancestral hall is located in Licuo 李厝. As a result of being bullied by others for being a minority, some residents moved to other places. However, there are still more than ten households and close to 100 people living in Houku 后枯. These families from Zheche and Houku combine to form the Sheanshê “佘安社”, and to participate in the ritual activities of the Weixianmiao 威显庙. 3. Village temples 1) Weixiantang 威显堂 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Other gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chengong sheren 陈公舍人, Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统, Qiugong jiangjun 邱公将军, Liugong taibao 刘公太保, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙 中军, Daye and Erye 大爷二爷. This temple preserves a stele composed in 1919 entitled 列代古坛香位碑 (Stele listing the names of the spirit mediums belonging to the altar through the ages) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:361, No. 325). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, villagers participate in the festival of Weixian miao 威显庙 of Houku 后枯 for one day. The main gods of their own home temple do not go on procession. Instead, opera is performed in front of the temple, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is held. Opera is performed in front of Weixianmiao 威显庙. The village temple organizes a feast set up with offerings. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village has a number of Shentong 神童 spirit mediums who take part in the guanjie 关戒 (training sessions) and xingno 行傩 (mediumistic dance procession) of Weixianmiao 威显庙. Spirit mediums are possessed by Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 of the home temple 降神. 
V675 Licuo 李厝 1. Village settlement Licuo is both a natural village, and an Administrative Village. Licuo is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上 七境. Licuo originally belonged to Houku 后枯 and was called Xiacuo 下厝, but it later became an independent village. There are currently more than 2000 people in the village, and it is divided into ritual and territorial units such as Zhangfangtou 长房头 (more than 200 people), Erfangtou 二房头 (more than 200 people), Shangjia 上甲 (more than 300 people), Weicuo 尾厝 (more than 300 people), Liuzu 六祖 (more than 300 people), and Bazu 八祖 (approximately 350 people). All of these are referred to as Jia 甲 (neighborhoods). The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. There is a Li Ancestral hall in the village and the hall preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 6 (1741), entitled 李族建祠捐金碑 (Stele listing the money contributed to the construction of the Ancestral hall of the Li lineage) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:231, No. 200). 2. Surname groups 90% of the villagers are of the Li 李 surname group. Other surnames include the Shê 佘and the Hong 洪, each having dozens of people. The Li 李 are said to have emigrated from Baitang 白塘 in Hanjiang 涵江. They have combined their lineage genealogy with that of the Li 李 of Baitang 白塘. A Li ancestral hall is in Xindun village 新墩村. 3. Village temples 1) Weixiandian 威显殿 was renovated in the Qing Daoguang 8 (1828). The main god worshipped is Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qingshan wanggong 青山王公, Sihai longwang 四海龙王, Qiugong jiangjun 邱 公将军, Liugong jiangjun 刘公将军. 2) Xinxingshê 新兴社: The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary deities include Panguan 判官and Jishi 吉使. 3) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 contains the Longxingshê 龙兴社 and was originally constructed during the Ming Dynasty. Originally this temple belonged to the Shê 佘 lineage group, but nowadays it belongs to the Li 李. Gods worshipped include Xianling dawang 显灵大王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, Yuhuang taizi 玉皇太子, Shêgong Shêma 社公社妈. There are twnety-one Tanban 坛班 altar associates who are responsible for the welcoming and sending away of the gods during Yuanxiao 元宵 and for the birthday celebrations of the gods. 4) Fengyidian 凤仪殿: The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝. Other gods include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, and Aye gong 阿爷公. 5) Chengmingtang 诚明堂 or Laojundian (老君殿) was originally a Christian church, but now is dedicated to the worship of Taishang laojun 太上 老君 as well as Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Rulai fozu 如来佛祖, Guan-sheng dijun 关圣帝君, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Luzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Han jiangjun 汉将军. 6) Zongyu Shuyuan 宗玉书院 was built in Qing Guangxu 31 (1905) to worship the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩). It has over one hundred adherents. 7) Guanyinting 观音亭 was renovated in Qing Qianlong 51 (1786). The main god worshipped is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Songyutang 宋玉堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 97 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, all the gods of Weixiandian 威显殿 go on procession within the village itself and around Xiandianhou 新店后. The main gods of each shê 社 return to their original jiatou 甲头 (neighborhood) for processions. The processions are organized by the entire village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods The birthday celebrations for all the gods of Fengyidian 凤仪殿 and Guanyinting 观音亭 are celebrated by the entire village all together. Offerings are set up and opera is performed. Funds are collected either on a per capita basis, or by personal donations. The birthday celebrations for all the gods of Weixianidian 威显殿 are organized by each shê separately: 4/15: The celebration of Qiugong jiangjun 邱公将军 is organized by Zhangfangtou 长房头. 4/19: The celebration for Longwang 龙王 is organized by the Liuzu 六祖, Bazu 八祖 and Weicuo 尾厝 neighborhoods together; 7/15: The celebration for Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is organized by the Liuzu 六祖, Bazu 八祖 and Weicuo 尾厝 neighborhoods together; 8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Shangjia and Xiajia 上下甲 neighborhoods together. 10/15: The celebration for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by Zhangfangtou 长房头. 10/23: The celebration for Qingshan wanggong 青山王公 is organized by Erfangtou 二房头. Every year, each shê has several Fushous 福首. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are currently 21 members of the Tanban of Fuxingtang 福兴堂坛班. They take charge of rites of sending off and re-inviting the gods at New Years, and the celebrations of the gods of the temple. Fengyidian 凤仪殿 also has an altar association (tanban), and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is the main Tanshen 坛神 (altar deity who most commonly descends to possess spirit mediums). The selection of Shentong 神童 mediums needs to receive the consent of the god Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. The village originally had a Christian church, but it has now been transformed into a Laojundian 老君殿 (see above). There is also Xianshilou “仙师楼” which is located in a villager’s house. The gods worshipped include Yuanshi tianzun 元始天尊, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Zhanggong zhenjun 张公真君. Every night, there are some disciples who gather together to chant the scriptures and practice self cultivation. 
V676 Xindian 新店 1. Village settlement Xindian currently is part of Xinqian village 新前村. The residents mostly came from Goushang 沟上 village during the late Qing Dynasty. There are currently more than 1000 people in Xindian. They are divided Qiancuoan 前厝埯, Houan 后埯, Daobanzhan 道班站 and all the jia (neighborhoods) of the Chen 陈 surname group. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups Xindian was originally settled by the Chen 陈 surname group. Today, the Li 李 surname group is the majority. The Li emigrated from Licuo 李厝, and belongs to the Zhangfangtou 长房头. The Li ancestral hall is in Xindun 新墩. 3. Village temples 1) Longyoutang 隆佑堂 was built in Qing Daoguang 13 (1833). The gods worshipped are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mituo dajiang 弥陀 大将, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Fuxingshê 复兴社 was originally a small shrine dedicated to the Buddha Fozu 佛祖. Now the gods worshipped in the temple are Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, the Four Ferocious Generals Jin 金, Chen 陈, Zhu 朱, and Li 李 Sijia mengjiang 四家猛将, the three Commanders in Chief Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Lin 林三都统, the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The gods of the village do not go on a procession in their own village. However, they do participate in the procession of Weixiandian 威显殿 of Licuo 李厝, but a Daoist Jiao ritual is conducted in the village. The birthday celebrations for the gods The birthday celebrations for all the gods of Fuxingshê 复兴社 are organized by the entire village all together. They are conducted by Tanban 坛班 altar associates. 3/15: The celebration for Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 4/13: The celebration for Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held. 9/9: The celebration for Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. On all these ritual-events, opera is performed. All other gods only have offering tables set up in front of their altars. The birthday celebrations for all the gods of Longyoutang 隆佑堂 are organized by each jia tou 甲头. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Chen 陈. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Li 李 of Houan 后埯. 9/9: The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is organized by the Li 李 of Daobanzhan 道班站. 9/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Li 李 of Qiancuoan 前厝埯. 5. Ritual Groups There are currently more than 30 Tanban 坛班 altar associates. The first Guanjie 关戒 occurred 80 years ago. The second Guanjie was in 1993. All the gods of the Fuxingshê are worshipped and descend into and possess the Tanban 坛班. This temple has the characteristics of a Dong “洞” a spirit medium “cavern”. 
V677 Xindun 新墩 1. Village settlement Xindun is both a natural and an administrative village and is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. The village currently has more than 1700 people. It is divided into four jia 甲 (neighborhoods): Houcuo 后厝, Weicuo 尾厝, Shimen 石门, and Jingtou 井头. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups All the residents of Xindun are of the Li 李 surname group. It is said that the Li emigrated from Baitang 白塘 in Hanjiang 涵江. There is a lineage genealogy. The Li ancestral hall 李氏宗祠 was constructed in the Qing Qianlong 19 (1754). The hall preserves a stele entitled 李族倡 建宗祠碑 (Stele on the construction of the ancestral hall of the Li lineage) from Qianlong 19 (1754) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:234, No. 203) and a second stele composed in Qianlong 49 (1784) entitled 李族增置祀业董事碑 (Stele listing the management committee of the expanded sacrificial foundation of the Dongli Ancestral hall of the Li lineage) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:254, No. 219). 3. Village temples 1) Fuhuitang 福惠堂 was built in Qing Jiaqing 10 (1805), and contains the Xinxingshê 新兴社, which divided off` from the original Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple preserves a Fuhuitang xinxingshê zhi 福惠堂新兴社志 (Temple Gazetteer of Fuhaitang Xinxingshe). The temple was renovated in 1981. The main gods worshipped are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Other gods include Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康 公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Tiankui dikui 天魁地魁, Zunzhu mingwang 尊 主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Jinguan xiangu 金观仙姑 (Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, and the main gods of one of the four jia go on procession. All the married men of the village take turns one by one to be the head person (Touren) 头人, all others are on the staff. The procession route is determined by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄. The first and last households have to invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct rituals. All other expenses are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following celebrations are organized by the village as a whole: 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝 is held. 8/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. On these occasions, funds are collected according to the total population of the entire village. All other the birthday celebrations are paid for by each jia as follows: 3/16: The celebrations of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is sponsored by Weicuo 尾厝. 4/18: The celebrations of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is sponsored by Houcuo 后厝. 7/7: The celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is sponsored by Weicuo 尾厝. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is sponsored by Shimen 石门. 9/9: The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is sponsored by Jingtou 井头. All the birthday celebrations are hosted by a group of the married men of the village, selected by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄. 5. Ritual Groups There are two Three in One temples in the village: the Shunhetang 顺和堂, which has more than 80 adherents, and the Fuxintang 福新堂, which has over 40 adherents. There is also a small temple called the Changmingfu 长明府, which worships Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima dashen 姨妈大神, Li daren 李大人, Hong daren 洪大人, and Zhuo daren 卓大人. This temple is run by an old woman. Each household worships there on their own volition. The birthday celebrations for Lufu dashen are held on 5/22. Marionette plays are performed. These are mostly supported by personal donations. In the Three in One temples one finds a stele composed in Guangxu 31 (1905) entitled 宗玉堂功德碑 (Stele recording the merit [arising from the construction of the] Ancestral Jade [Three in One ] Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:357, No. 320). 
V678 Houchengpu 后埕埔 1. Village settlement Houchengpu was originally called Dongshê 东佘 and is located between Houku 后枯 and Xindun 新墩. Houchengpu belongs to the Xindun Administrative Village 新墩行政村. There are currently 500 people in the village, which is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Tianzhongyang 田中央, Dacuoli 大厝里, Zhengcuo 郑厝, and Houcheng 后埕. The main livelihoods are agriculture and fishery. 2. Surname groups The majority of the villagers are of the Cai 蔡 surname group. Only a minority are of the Zheng 郑 surname group. The Cai are said to have emigrated from Dongsha 东沙 of Lingchuan 灵川. 3. Village temples 1) Yongfutang 永福堂 was renovated in 1983. The main god worshipped is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuxian linggong yuanshuai 五显灵宫元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jixiang dajiang 吉 祥大将, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Mashi furen 马氏夫人, Shêgong Shêma 社公社妈, and Wenwu panguan 文武判官. 2) Jinshangong 金山宫 belongs to Houchengpu 后埕埔. The date of construction is unknown. The main god worshipped is Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mazu 妈祖, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎 将军, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. 3) Beixiantang 本显堂 belongs to Houchengpu 后埕埔. The date of construction is unknown. It was rebuilt in 1991. The gods worshipped are Li daren 李大人, Hong daren 洪大人, and Zhuo daren 卓大人. It is managed by one woman. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣 君 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of theYongfutang 永福堂 go on procession for one day. Each jia 甲 take turns to be the host, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/15: The birthday celebration for Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each of these occasions opera is performed for several days. All other the birthday celebrations of the gods only have offerings set up, but no opera. Each jia 甲 take turns to be the host, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of all the gods of Jinshangong 金山宫 are organized by the residents of Houcheng pu 后埕埔. 9/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed. For the other god’s birthday celebrations, only tables of offerings are set up. 
V679 Qianmian 前面 1. Village settlement Qianmian was originally called Dongli 东利. Qianmian is both a natural and an Administrative Village. It is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. There are currently more than 2000 people in the village. It is divided into seven jia 甲: Qianmianwei 前面尾, Tianzhongyang 田中央, Houcuo 后厝, Weicuo 尾厝, Qiaotou 桥头, Houjiang 后江, and Daimen 埭门. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. Other surnames include the Zhou 周, the You 游, the Tang 汤, and the Wu 吴. The Li 李 are said to be of the same ancestry as the Li of Xindun 新墩 and Licuo 李厝. The Li emigrated from Baitang 白塘 in Hanjiang 涵江 during the Ming Dynasty, and there have been ten generations up to the present. 3. Village temples 1) Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 is in Donglijing 东利境 and contains the Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社. The temple was renovated in Qing Qianlong 33 (1768), and in Jiaqing 3 (1798), both restorations having epigraphic records. The temple was renovated again during the period from 1981 to 1984. The main gods worshipped are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Other gods include Feitian dasheng 飞天 大圣, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Chen dajiangjun 陈大将军, Li dajiangjun 李大将军, Zhu dajiangjun 朱大 将军, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Zhenggong dutong 郑公都统, Lingong dutong 林公都统, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军, Liujia jiangjun 六甲将军, Tiehuan tongzi 铁环童子, Baosong furen 抱送 夫人 (two), Liuding shenjiang 六丁神将, Qinggong zhenren 清宫真人, Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Rulaifo 如来佛, and Guangong 关公. The temple preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 33 (1768) entitled 重修广仁庙碑 记 (Stele recording the restorations to the Temple of Broad Humaneness) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:249, No. 214) and another stele composed in Jiaqing 3 (1798) entitled 重修广仁庙捐款碑 (Stele listing contributions towards the renovation of the Temple of Broad Humaneness) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:264, No. 229). 2) Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿 branched out from Guangrenmiao 广仁庙. The date of construction is unknown. It was renovated in Qing Tongzhi 6 (1867) and in 1979. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统, Lin dutong 林都统, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Baosong furen 抱送夫人 (two), Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. 3) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: The date of construction is unknown, but this is said to be the oldest temple in Qianmian 前面. The gods worshipped are Sihai longwang 四海龙王, Shê gong 社公 and Shê ma 社妈. 4) Kaixingtang 开兴堂 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and also to the worship of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Li daren 李大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿 is invited by the Li 李 surname group, Chen dutong 陈都统 is invited by the residents of Houcufang 后厝房, and Jin jiangjun 金将军 is invited by the Zhou 周 surname group to go on procession for one day. Five to eight men over the age of 60 are selected to be the head persons (touren) 头人. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–14, depending on the results of divination, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 or Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 goes on procession, and Jin jiangjun 金将军and Lin dutong 林都统 go along with the procession as guards. Each jiatou 甲头 take turns to welcome the procession. The procession route is determined by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄. It is hosted by the Toucuo and Weicuo 头尾厝. Funds are collected on a per household basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods The Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 is the center of organization for the following events: 4/19: The celebration of the Sihai longwang 四海龙王 (Dragon Kings of the Four Seas) is held. 8/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held (in this case, the day of consecration 开光日 is used as the birthday). These rites are organized by the two main village temples simultaneously. Personal donations are used to sponsor marionette plays. Each household is responsible for their own worshipping offerings. Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿: 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/13: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/15: The celebration of Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅诞 is held. 4/13: The celebration of Wen yuanshuai 温元帅诞 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Kang yuanshuai 康元帅诞 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Taiyi jinxiangu 太乙金仙姑 is held. All of these celebrations are hosted by the Tanban 坛班 of the temple. The Tanban also set up the offering altars. Households can come to worship freely. Various communities of the Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 host the following god’s birthdays: 1/4: The welcoming of the gods 接神 is hosted by the Li 李 of Qianmianwei 前面尾. 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Li李 of Tianzhongyang 田中央. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the Li 李 of Sifangtou 四房头. 4/13: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by a Shenminghui 神明会 (a god association). 7/7: The celebration of Kang yuanshuai 康元帅诞 is organized by the Zhou 周, Tang 汤, and You 游, taking turns annually. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Li 李 of Sifangtou 四房头. 10/10: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is organized by the Li 李 of Houcuofang 后厝房. The birthday celebrations of each jia have opera performed for four to five days. Funds are collected on a per household basis. 5. Ritual Groups Jiaxingdian 嘉兴殿 has a stele dedicated to the ancient altars of the (spirit mediums) of the past. There are currently thirty-eight Tanban 坛班 altar associates. Guanjie 关戒 (spirit medium training) has occurred three times. Guangrenmiao 广仁庙 has tanban 坛班 spell booklets (zhouce) 咒册 and god invoking booklets (hushence) 呼神册. 
V680 Ding dun 顶墩 1. Village settlement Dingdun was originally known as Chendun 陈墩, and belongs to the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星行政村. There are currently more than 700 people in the village. It is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Weng 翁. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Zhang 张. The Lin have the most people while the Weng are second most numerous. The Chen has approximately eighty people while the Li and the Zhang only have a few households. 3. Village temples 1) Guanghuigong 广惠宫 contains the Jifushê 集福社: The original year of construction is unknown. The main god worshipped is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Other gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 (belonging to the Weng 翁), Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 (belonging to the Lin 林), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘 公元帅, Anshan shengwang 安善圣王, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The temple preserves a stele composed in Tongzhi 6 (1867) entitled 重修广惠宫碑记 (Stele recording the repairs to the Temple of Vast Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:327, No. 291). 2) Kaixingtang 开兴堂: The original year of construction is unknown. This temple is considered as a dong 洞, a spirit medium cavern built around the activities of Tanban 坛班 spirit mediums. The main god worshipped is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Other gods include Mazu 妈祖, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄 坛元帅, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Li daren 李大人, Guanyin dashi 观 音大士, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Wen yuanshuai 温元 帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元 帅, Wenwu siguan dadi 文武四官大帝, Shengcai tongzi 生财童子, Xianbao longnü 献宝龙女. 3) Zhonghetang 中和堂 is dedicated to the worship of Sanyijiaozhu (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩) 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 180 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of Guanghuigong 广惠宫 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Lin daren 林大人 of Kaixingtang 开兴堂 go on procession. Sixteen head persons (Touren) 头人 are selected to be the hosts. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Weng 翁. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Lin 林. The birthday celebrations some of the gods of Guanghuigong 广惠宫 are organized by the entire village all together. These are hosted by the head persons, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Other god’s are celebrated by specific surname groups. The birthday celebrations of the gods of the Kaixingtang 开兴堂 are sponsored by the Tanban 坛班 altar associates. 5. Ritual Groups Guanghuigong 广惠宫 and Kaixingtang 开兴堂 each has its different Tanban 坛班. Guanghuigong has twenty-seven Tanban altar associates, and Guanjie 关戒 has occurred twice. Kaixingtang has thirty Tanban alter associates. Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is the main deity of the altar (zhu tan) 主坛. Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Baima xianggong 白马相公 and Li daren 李 大人 can also descend, and each has its own Shentong 神童 spirit medium. Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times. There is also a Three in One temple called the Zhonghetang 中和堂 with 180 adherents. 
V681 Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement Xiadun 下墩 is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境, and also belongs to the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星行政村. There are currently approximately 300 people in the village, which is divided into three jia 甲: Shangmian 上面, Xiacuo 下厝 and Wumen 乌门. The main livelihoods are agriculture and fishery. There are more than 130 Overseas Chinese living abroad. 2. Surname groups All the residents are of the Chen 陈 surname group. It is said that the Chen emigrated from Dingdun 顶墩 during the Ming Dynasty. The Chen lineage was originally divided into four branches, but now two of them have merged together, so there are only three branches: Wumen 乌门, Xiacuo 下厝, and Shangmian 上面. The earliest ancestral tomb dates back to Qing Qianlong 12 (1747), but there is no combined worship at the tombs for the entire clan. Each branch conducts its own worshipping of its ancestors. There are no ancestral halls and no lineage genealogies. 3. Village temples 1) Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 contains the Jifushê 集福社. The temple branched out from a temple in Dingdun 顶墩. The original construction was during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620). The temple was renovated in Qing Tongzhi 9 (1870) and in 1985. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other secondary gods include Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康 元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Wu jiangjun 吴将军, Wang jiangjun 王将军, Leigong leimu 雷公雷母, Fengbo yushi 风伯雨师, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Huang cang 黄苍, Bai cang 白苍, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Yima dashen 姨妈大神, Lufu dashen 鲁府 大神, Tiankui 天魁, Di kui 地魁, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Luban xianshi 鲁班仙师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 go on procession for one day. Six head persons (touren) 头人 are selected by means of sortition (Nianjiu) 拈阄, and the entire village takes turns putting forth candidates. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. There are also transfers from Overseas Chinese. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25 and 9/25: The celebrations of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are organized by Xiacuofang 下厝房. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 is organized by Shangmianfang 上面房. 4/7 and 8/7: The celebrations of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are organized by Wumenfang 乌门房. 4/14: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by Xiacuofang 下厝房. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by Xiacuofang 下厝房. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the entire village as a whole. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Shangmianfang 上面房; 10/11: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is organized by the entire village as a whole. Opera is performed for three days for all the birthday celebrations of the gods. There are either transfers from Overseas Chinese or funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 has more than ten Shentong 神 童 spirit mediums who are selected from teens under sixteen from the three jia 甲 neighborhoods. Guanjie 关戒 (training sessions) has occurred three times. 
V682 Wudun 吴墩 1. Village settlement Wudun is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境 and also belongs to the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星行政村. The current population is over 600. It is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Yang 杨, the Chen 陈, and the Huang 黄. The Wu 吴 have the most people, and are subdivided into nine zhu 九柱 (branches 房). Their origin is unknown. The Chen 陈 originally lived in Xiadun 下墩. It is said that the Chen moved here during the late Ming Dynasty in order to avoid the Japanese pirates. Information concerning the Yang 杨 and the Huang 黄 is unavailable. 3. Village temples 1) Yinghuigong 英惠宫 is part of the Wushanjing 吴山境 and contains the Nananshê 南安社: The date of construction is unknown. The main god worshipped is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Chen yuanshuai 陈 元帅, Zheng yuanshuai 郑元帅, Qiu yuanshuai 邱元帅, Liu yuanshuai 刘元 帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Lingyingtang 灵应堂: The date of construction is unknown. It is said that this temple is the oldest temple of the village. The divinatory poetry (Chouqian) 抽签 and planchette writing (Fuji) 扶乩 of this temple are said to be the most efficacious. The main god worshipped is Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅. Other gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Taiyi He xiangu 太乙何仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣 君, Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人, Yangshi xiangu 杨氏仙姑, Daye erye 大爷 二爷, and Wufu zhongjun 吴府中军. 3) Lingxiandian 灵显殿 is also called Beidougong 北头宫, and branched off from Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 of Xiadun 下墩, but it is not known when this occurred. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Shengfu shengmu 圣父圣母, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Liu yuanshuai 刘元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Shêgong Shêma 社公社妈. 4) Yanxingtang 延福堂 is inside the Lingxiandian 灵显殿: Main gods: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统 of Yinghuigong 英惠宫 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 of Lingxiandian 灵显殿 go on procession for one day. The entire village organizes the event together. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday celebration of Cijizhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘元帅 is held. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two or three days on each occasion. 5. Ritual Groups The Yinghuigong 英惠宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association, and has held guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V683 Youdun 游墩 1. Village settlement Youdun is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Goushang 沟上七境. It is part of the Wuxing Administrative Village 五星 行政村. There are currently approximately 800 people in the village. Youdun is divided into six jia 甲: Chengnei 埕内, Chengwai 埕外, Goucen 沟岑, Beitou 北头, Zhangcuo 张厝, and Lincuo 林厝. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yang 杨, Zhang 张, and Lin 林. The Yang surname group has the most people, at approximately 500 people, and it is divided into four branches: Chengnei 埕内 has 114 people, Chengwai 埕外 has 140 people, Goucen 沟岑 has 208 people, and Beitou 北头 has 38 people. The Zhang has 161 people while the Lin has 70 people. The Yang have three zutang 祖堂 (ancestral homes) and the Lin have one. 3. Village temples 1) Jiletang 极乐堂. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Wenwu panguan 文武判官, Jin sheren 金舍人, Lin taiwei 林太尉. 2) Jifushê 集福社 branched off from the Jifushê of Dingdun 顶墩. The gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yufengmiao 毓凤庙: The date of construction is unknown. The temple belongs to the Yang 杨 surname group. The gods worshipped are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Wude zhongjun 武德中军 and Liumei tongzi 柳梅童子. 4) Xinglongtan 兴龙坛 is as a dong 洞 spirit medium cavern-temple. The gods worshipped are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 (Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人), Yima dashen 姨妈大神 (Yayi zunniang 亚姨 尊娘), Huang sheren 黄舍人, and Bai sheren 白舍人. 5) Fuyitang 福义堂 is dedicated to the worship of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods worshipped are Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓 祖真人. 6) Zongxuntang 宗顺堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Additional gods worshipped are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 7) Fuxingtang 福星堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the shê altar are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/21, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 of Jiletang 极乐堂 go on procession for one day. The entire village organizes the event together. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is co-organized by the Yang 杨 of Chengnei 埕内 and Chengwai 埕外. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the Yang 杨 of Goucen 沟岑. 4/13: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by Lincuo 林厝. The birthday celebration of Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军 is organized by the Yang 杨 of Beitou 北头. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is co-organized by the Yang 杨 of each jia 甲. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is co-organized by the Yang 杨 of Chengnei 埕内 and Chengwai 埕外. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/13: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Zhangcuo 张厝. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is co-organized by the Yang 杨 of Chengnei 埕内 and Chengwai 埕外. Funds are collected on a per capita basis from the organizing community. Opera is performed for several days on each god’s birthday. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinglongtan 兴龙坛 originally had spirit mediums, but has not held guanjie training sessions. 
A150 Shangfang qijing (Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance) 上方七境 The Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Middle Main Channel of the Jiuliyang Irrigation system 九里洋. This area was part of the Shiting xincuopu 石庭新厝铺 (policing/defense unit) of Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton. Currently the population of this area is over 15,000 people. In the Ming, the villages of Shangfang 上方, Shanglin 上林, Xialiu 下刘 and Caidun 蔡墩 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shiting 石庭, Dongshi 东施, Xishi 西施, Pucheng 埔埕, Xiliu 西刘, Dongcai 东蔡, Xicai 西蔡 and Jiewai 界外 separated off. Currently, Shiting village has developed Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance a relatively independent temple ritual system, called the 石庭四甲 (the four jia (ritual associations) of Shiting). Meanwhile, Shangfang village has become a subordinate neighborhood of the greater Shiting village. Originally the Shangfanggong 上方宫, with its Fuxing dongshê 福兴东 社, was the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance, and on set dates it would organize joint processions and hold god’s the birthday celebrations, along with guanjie training sessions for spirit mediums. The main gods of the temple were Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Zunshu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods included Huguo Wanglangjun 护国王郎君, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dashen 齐天大圣, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙 妃, Luotian dajiang 罗天大将, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯. In the Republican period, the Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance repaired the Shangfang temple and the Fuxing dongshê, and carried out collective processions and rituals, and organized spirit medium training sessions (guanjie 关戒). In 2003, when the Huang 黄 lineage of Shiting rebuilt the Jiulidong 九鲤洞 temple, the Shangfanggong temple and the Fuxing dongshê were dismantled, and all their gods were transferred to the Jiulidong temple. As mentioned above, because Shangfang village was inhabited by members of the Huang 黄 lineage of Shiting 石庭, the village transformed into the Houtingjia 后亭甲 (neighborhood) of Shidong 石东 village, and the Shangfanggong 上方宫 was absorbed into the Jiulidong 九鲤洞九鲤洞 (Nine Carp Cavern-temple). Currently, the Huang lineage of Shiting has evolved a relatively independent ritual system, known as the Shiting sijia 石庭四甲 (Four neighborhoods of Shiting). All that is left of the Shangfang sevenfold ritual alliance are the four villages of Shanglin 上林, Dongshi 东施 (Xishi 西施), Pucheng 埔埕, and Xiliu 西刘. These four villages join with the villages of Dongcai 东蔡 and Jiexia 界下, which were originally part of the Fengyangpu 丰洋铺 of Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton, in the processions of the Dongyueguan zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 of Jiangkou. 
V684 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement Shanglin belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. The current population is approximately 500 people. The village is not divided up into neighborhoods. The main livelihoods of the inhabitants are agriculture and commerce. There are some family dependents of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Fang 方, the Qiu 邱, the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, and the Weng 翁. The Huang emigrated from Shiting 石庭. The origins of the other surname groups are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglingong 上林宫 contains the Shanglin shushê 上林书社. The left hand side of the temple is the Mingwangdian 明王殿, the right hand side is the Yuanshuaifu 元帅府. The date of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated in Qing Xianfeng 3 (1853). The main gods are is Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. The other gods worshipped in the temple are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Zhiyuantang 志元堂 belongs to the Three in One 三一教. The temple was originally called the Shanglinting 上林亭. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩) 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝, Ducha Xu daren 都察徐大人 Jianlei yushi (Zhang Shenggong) 监雷御史, Tianqian shengmu (Chen Jinggu) 天前圣 母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianshang shengmu (Mazu) 天上圣母, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷金普化天尊, Ancha Li daren 按察李大人, Anyuan Jiang daren 按院江大人, Beidou zhongtian dadi 北 斗中天大帝, Zhengyi lingguan dadi 正一灵官大帝, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗 大圣, Senluo tianzi 森罗天子, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康 元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Xietian dadi 协天大 帝, Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Gong jiangjun 龚将军, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, Jinyin ertongzi 金银二童子, Cangzhongjun 仓中君, Ashê 阿 舍, Hutang daye 护堂大爷, Erye 二爷, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Tiankui lingguan 天魁灵官, Xunsi Chun daren 巡司春大人, Baihe tongzi 白鹤童子, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo longtian 韦陀龙天. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods are invited to each household to xingdao 行道. In the middle of the month, a procession is held on a day determined by divination. Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 go on procession. The procession and the festival are organized all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration is held on for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/18: The celebration is held for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 5/13: The celebration is held for Sima shengwang 司马圣王. These events are organized by the headsmen selected for the year, and contributions are gathered on a per capita basis, without dividing up into different neighborhoods. 5. Ritual Groups Every year, there are four head persons in charge of the Yuanxiao processions and the god’s the birthday celebrations, and these positions rotate among the households. The Shanglingong 上林宫 has already held guanjie spirit medium trainings three times. There are currently 40 members of the Tanban 坛班 (altar association). 
V685 Dongshi 东施 1. Village settlement Dongshi was originally divided into two villages called Dongshi 东施 and Xishi 西施, and they constituted two units of the seven ritual territories of Shangfang 上方七境. Later the two villages merged together, and the resulting mix was called Dongshi. Dongshi belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东楼行政村. The current population is approximately 600 people. The village is not divided up into neighborhoods. The main livelihood of the inhabitants is agriculture. 2. Surname groups Dongshi has three surname groups: the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Liu 刘. The surname groups have similar population sizes. Their origins and branches are unknown. It is said that there were ten gongting 公厅 ancestral houses in the village, but that now mixed surnames live in them. On Yuanxiao, however, people go back to their original ancestral house to celebrate and worship. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 is part of Dongshi jing 东施境, and contains the Qixingshê 齐兴社: The date of construction is unknown. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 2) Sanxiaodian 三霄殿 is part of Linjiangjing 临江境 and contains the Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was built in Qing Qianlong 1 (1736), and demolished in 1966. For some time the gods of the temple took refuge in the Beijidian 北极殿, but in 1981 the temple was rebuilt. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods are Zixiao niangniang 紫宵 娘娘, Bixiao niangniang 碧宵娘娘, Yunxiao niangniang 云宵娘娘, Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, and Chen zhongjun 陈中军. 3) Dongfumiao 东福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, each surname group invites the gods to its gongting 公厅 ancestral house. After Yuanxiao, on a day determined by divination, all the gods are brought back to the temple. On the same night, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Daochang Daoist rite, and the Tanban altar associates xingnuo 行傩 conduct exorcistic dances and fenglu 封路 seal the crossroads against demonic forces. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王 is organized by the Zheng 郑. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are made according to households. All the other gods have different surname groups organizing their birthday celebrations. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Zheng 郑. 9/9: The celebration for Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Chen zhongjun 陈中军 is organized by the Chen 陈. The celebration of Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 is organized by the Liu 刘. 5. Ritual Groups The village currently has 33 Tanban members. They adhere to the Lushan dafayuan 闾山大法院, and they have already gone through numerous guanjie spirit medium trainings. Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Kanggong shengwang 康公圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, and Chen zhongjun 陈中军 all have possessed spirit mediums Shentong 神童. 
V686 Pucheng 埔埕 1. Village settlement Pucheng is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Shangfang 上方七境. The village belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东楼行政村. The current population is approximately 1300 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods: the upper Shang Pucheng 上埔埕 and the lower Xia Pucheng 下埔埕. The main livelihood of the inhabitants is agriculture. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, the Fang 方, the Chen 陈, and the Cai 蔡. The Liu have approximately 900 people, and are divided into two lineage segments: the upper and the lower Pucheng segments 上, 下 埔埕二族. The lower Pucheng segment is further divided into two branches 房. The Cai has approximately 200 people. The Fang and the Chen have less people. Their origins and branches are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Puchengjing Nananmiao (Fuxingshê) 浦城境南 安庙, 福兴社: The side halls of the temple complex are separate temples, namely the 2) Liangjigong 两姬宫 3) Mingwangdian 明王殿: The year of construction is unknown. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Yinzhu xiangu 银主仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Dongandian 东安殿 is a spirit-medium dong (洞 cavern temple) in Shangpucheng 上埔埕. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Other gods worshipped include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝, Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Shiling daren 十灵大人, Sanling daren 三灵大人, Tianhuo yuanshuai 天火元帅, Yima daren 姨妈大人, Jiang daren 江大人, Xu daren 徐大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Ma daren 马大人, Zhou jiangjun 周将 军, and Hou jiangjun 侯将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 each surname group invites gods back to their homes. Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is invited by the Liu of Weifang 尾房刘; Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jialuo dasheng 迦 罗大圣 are invited by miscellaneous surnames in the Jiucuo neighborhood 旧厝; Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited by the Cai 蔡; Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is invited by the Chen 陈 and the Liu 刘; Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is invited by the first and the second branches of the Liu lineage 刘姓长二房. Between 1/12 and 1/26, on a day determined by divination, these gods are taken around the boundaries of the village on a procession for a day. This is organized all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following the birthday celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, without division by neighborhoods: 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Jialuo dasheng 迦罗 大圣 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. The celebrations of the gods of Dongandian 东安殿 are organized by Shangpucheng 上埔埕 on its own. 5. Ritual Groups Nananmiao 南安庙 has already held a Guanjie spirit medium training once. Currently, there are more than 30 members of the Tanban. Dongandian 东安殿 has held Guanjie twice, in 1984 and 1992. There are more than 40 members of the Tanban, of which some of the Shentong 神 童 spirit mediums also participate in the Tanban of Nananmiao. 
V687 Xiliu 西刘 1. Village settlement Xiliu was originally known as Qianliu 前刘, when the village was first settled in the Qianlong period (1736–1795). It is an independent administrative village. The current population is over 1000 people. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Shêbian 社边, Dingjiucuo 顶旧厝, and Wuzhangcuo 五张厝. The main livelihood of the inhabitants is agriculture. There are some family dependents of overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups All the inhabitants of the village are of the Liu 刘 surname group. It is said that the inhabitants used to live in Jiucuojiao 旧厝 角 of Shiting 石庭. They moved to this village because they were bullied by the Huang lineage. There is a Liu ancestral hall. Those Liu that remained in Shiting 石庭 changed their last names to Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xinlinggong of Shiting shengjing 石庭圣境新灵 宫 contains the Fuxingxishê 福兴西社, and was built in Qing Xianfeng 8 (1858). The main gods are Zhengshun shengwang 正顺圣王, Zunshu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. In addition there are the following gods: Jiutianfumo Liu yuanshuai 九天伏魔刘元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐 天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元 帅, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Xiehui erfei 协惠二妃 (the younger sister of Kang Gong 康公之妹). 2) Huiyuantang 惠远堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Yuanmingtang 圆明堂 was built in Qing Qianlong 4 (1739) and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods are invited to each household to xingdao 行道 carry out the Dao. Between 1/16 and 1/20, on a day decided by divination, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is carried on a procession for a day. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, unless otherwise indicated: 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Shêbian 社边. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Shangjiucuo 上旧厝. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/14: The celebration of Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 10/17: The celebrations of Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯 are organized by Wuzhangcuo 五张厝. 11/27: The celebration of Zhengshun shengwang 正顺圣王 Each neighborhood performs lots of opera on the birthday celebrations of the gods, which is paid for either by donations from Overseas Chinese, or on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Guanjie spirit medium training has already taken place six times. There are now over 60 members of the Tanban altar association. Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 all descend to possess spirit mediums. 
V688 Dongcai 东蔡 1. Village settlement Dongcai was formerly named Caidun 蔡墩, and was made up of the two villages of Dongcai 东蔡 and Xicai 西蔡, which later merged into one. Dongcai belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东 楼行政村. There are currently close to 1000 people in the village, and they are divided into three neighborhoods: Zhuolang 卓廊, Houcuo 后厝, and Xiamian 下面. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, the Wu 吴, and the Huang 黄. The Wu are divided into three branches: the Wu 吴 of Zhuolang 卓廊 have more than 200 people, the Wu of Xiamian下面 have 147 people; and the Wu 吴 of Houcuo 后厝 have more than 300 people. There was originally an ancestral hall, but it has been destroyed. The Cai have approximately 200 people while the Huang have approximately 150 people. 3. Village temples 1) Zixiatang 紫霞堂 is part of Fengtaijing 丰泰境 and contains the Zhenjiangshê 振江社. Originally constructed in the Qing Kangxi era (1662–1722), this temple was reconstructed in Qianlong 56 (1791). The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Liuzu zunfo 六祖尊佛, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhusheng dadi 注生大 帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄 坛元帅, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liu shenghou 柳 圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Yinglie miaojiangjun 英烈妙将军, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The temple preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 56 (1791) entitled 重建紫霞堂立碑序 (Preface on a stele commemorating the reconstruction of the Purple Mist shrine) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:259, No. 222). 2) Dongyueguan 东岳观 was built in 1991, when it divided incense from the Jiangkou Dongyueguan 江口东岳观. This temple preserves the Jiangkou Dongyueguan placards dating to the Wanli period (1573–1620) and Qing Qianlong periods (1736–1795). The main god worshipped in Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝. 3) Shunzhong shuyuan 顺中书院, was built in the early Republican period and is dedicated to the worship of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, founder of the Three in One. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 271 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 each neighborhood god 角头神 is invited to descend from its perch in the temple下张 and visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). These gods are invited to return to the temple on 1/16, and in the process to go on a procession around the spiritual boundaries of the village (raojing 绕境). The following gods take part in the procession: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元 帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong sheng- jun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅. The five jia 甲 take turns to be the host. On 2/12, Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生 is carried out on a procession 出郊巡游. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 on 3/3 is organized by the entire village altogether. Opera is performed for several days, and funds are collected on a per household basis. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Wu 吴 of Zhuokuo 卓廓. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is organized by the Wu 吴 of Xiamian 下面. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Cai 蔡. The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by the Huang 黄. The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by the Wu 吴 of Houcuo 后厝. On these birthday celebrations, each jia mostly screen movies. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is usually not performed. 5. Ritual Groups Each year each jia select four head persons (touren) 头人. Organization of the Yuanxiao celebrations is rotated between the five jia. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V689 Jiexia 界下 1. Village settlement Jiexia belongs to the Donglou Administrative Village 东楼行政村. The village settlement began during the Qing Qianlong reign (1736–1795). A stele inscribed “fengzhi qianyi bianjie” “奉旨迁移边 界” is extent, an official indicator of the boundary of the coastal evacuation from the early years of Kangxi reign. There are currently approximately 300 people in the village, and more than 600 living away outside the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups All the residents are of the Zhang 张 surname group, which is divided into four branches. There is no ancestral hall and no common worshipping activities. 3. Village temples 1) Beichentang 北辰堂 contains the Lianjiangshê 连 江社, and was built in Tongzhi 1 (1862), after it had branched off from the Zixiatang 紫霞堂 of Dongcai 东蔡. This temple still participates in related rituals at the Zixiatang. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xugong taiwei 徐公太 尉, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Zhengyi Wang lingguan 正一王灵官, Tiankui dikui 天魁地魁, Fengshen yubo 风神雨伯, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, a procession is first held in the village for one day. The next day, Jiexia participates in the procession of the Zixiatang 紫霞堂 of Dongcai 东蔡. These activities are organized by the village all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated with several days of opera. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are eighteen members of the Tanban 坛班. Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times. 
A151 Shiting sijia (Shiting four jia ritual alliance) 石庭四甲 Shiting 石庭 Shiting is located between the upper and the central main channel of the Nanan Weir ( Jiuliyang) irrigation system 南安陂上沟和中沟. This area was part of the Shiting Xincuopu 石庭新厝铺 and Tiezao pu 铁灶 (police/ defense unit) of the Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton. During the Qing, the villages of Tingli 庭里, Shangfang 上方 and Dongteizao 东铁灶 were settled. Shiting is an elongated village which is managed by both the Shidong 石 东 and the Shixi 石西 Administrative Villages. The current population is over 10000 people, and its population of Overseas Chinese living abroad is over 20, 000. The vast majority of the people are of the Huang 黄 surname group. There used to be the Liu 刘 and the Fang 方, but these surnames no longer exist because they either moved away or changed their surnames to Huang. The Huang came from Huangxiang 黄巷 in Hanjiang 涵江 during the Yuan Dynasty. The fifth generation marked the start of the division into three branches. There is an ancestral hall which was built during the Ming Dynasty and renovated in 1987. Currently, Shiting village is divided into Damenjia 大门甲, Zhonghuajia 中华甲, Houcuojia 后厝甲, and Houtingjia 后亭甲. The following villages are part of Damenjia 大门甲: Sanzhangcuo 三张厝, Zhongyangcuo 中央厝, Qiaotouwai 桥头外, Tianzhongyang 田中 央, Dingxipo 顶西坡, Xiaxipo 下西坡, Bangui 半圭, and Houcheng 后埕. The following villages are part of Zhonghuajia 中华甲: Dingjiucuo 顶旧厝, Xiajiucuo下旧厝, Wudunyang 吴墩洋, Xiaogouwei 小沟尾, Qigancuo 旗杆 厝. The following villages are part of Houcuojia 后厝甲: Zhaili 寨里 and Yuanyangcuo 鸳鸯厝. The following villages are part of Houtingjia 后亭甲: Houting 后亭 and Tiezao 铁灶. The Shitinggong 石庭宫 and its Fuxingshê 福兴社, located in Shixi 石 西 village Xiajiucuo 下旧厝, is the overall main temple of the four jia 甲 of Shiling four jia ritual alliance Shiting. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Houtian dizi 昊天帝子, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Gongying tongzi 供应 童子 and Fenghuo erlang 风火二郎. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each Jia in rotation invites the temple incense burners to xingdao 行道 (visit each household to carry forth the Dao). On 6/1, the four Jia come together to celebrate the birthday of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙 将军. Other god’s birthdays are celebrated separately within each Jia neighborhood. Each time an intercalary lunar fourth month occurs, the Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) is taken on a procession to each Jia ritual association. The Shitinggong has a Temple Management Committee and an Overseas Chinese Development Committee. The temple has a Tanban (spirit medium association) with a membership of over fifty people, and it has held many guanjie spirit medium training sessions. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of Qing, Shiting was part of the white banner alliance. 
V690 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting village belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村, and was originally called Shangfang 上方. The population is over 1000, and the vast majority are dependent Overseas Chinese families. 2. Surname groups Houting is a single surname village, with all the inhabitants surnamed Huang 黄. There were originally the Fang 方 and the Wu 吴, but both surname groups have either emigrated or changed their surname to Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Shangfanggong 上方宫 contains the Fuxing dongshê 福兴东社. This was originally the main temple of the Shiting sevenfold ritual alliance. Its date of construction is unknown, but it was restored in 1914. In 2003, it was torn down and absorbed into the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. The main gods worshipped are Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Huguo langjun 护国郎君, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Luotian dajiang 罗天大将, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Jiulidong 九鲤洞 contains the Jiuli shushê 九鲤书社: It was originally constructed in 1916. Originally it was named the Xianshenglou 仙圣楼. The temple was rebuilt in 2002 and renamed the Fu Pu Xian Jiulidong Zongzhen (The Chief Temple of the Nine Carp Cavern of Fuqing, Putian, and Xianyou) 福莆仙九鲤洞总镇. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Heshi jiuxianweng 何氏九仙翁, Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Shiyuan Lu xianzhang 士元卢仙长, Wenhui xianshi 文晖仙师, Chengguang Wang xianshi 成光 王仙师, Shande Chen zhangzhe 善德陈长者, Huatuo daxian 华佗大仙, Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣候, Huguo Wang langjun 护国王郎君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 3) Wenyuandian 文元殿: This temple is run by the Tanban of Houting Jia. The original date of construction is unknown. The temple was rebuilt in 2006. The main gods worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods worshipped include Zhengyi Wang lingguan 正一王灵官, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Buyuan dashen 部院 大神, Zhonglie Tian yuanshuai 忠烈田元帅, and Weiwu Jin liezhongjun 威武金烈中军. 4) Shunxingtang 顺兴堂 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝, Taishang laojun 太上老君, Wangmu niangniang 王母 娘娘, Zhanngong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑. The Jade Emperor 玉皇 and the South and North Pole Stars 南北斗 are offered opera on 1/5, and 3/28. On 5/16 the temple celebrates 天地生金. On 7/23 and 8/14 the feast of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is celebrated. 5) Gutingtang 古厅堂 belongs to the Houtingjia Xiadoufang 后亭甲下斗 房. The main god worshipped in Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary gods are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On 9/19 opera is performed. 6) Xinxingtang 新兴堂 is dedicated to the worship of Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. The Tudigong 土地公 is offered opera on 6/6. 7) Julutang Buddhist hall 觉路堂 was built during the Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 8) Ciyunan Buddhist nunnery 慈云庵 was built in 1928. 9) Helinsi Buddhist temple 鹤林寺 was built in Tongzhi 12 (1873) (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). This temple preserves a stele composed in Tongzhi 13 (1868) entitled 鹤林寺题捐碑 (Stele listing the names of the contributors of money to the Crane Forest Monastery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:330, No. 294). 10) Helinan Buddhist nunnery 鹤林庵 was built in 1979 (PTZJZCG, 1992: 210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the temple incense burner is taken through the roadways to each household. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The birthdays of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 are celebrated. 3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated. 3/9: The birthday of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is celebrated. 3/16: The birthday of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is celebrated. 3/28: The birthday of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is celebrated by the Shunxingtang 顺兴堂. 5/5: The birthday of Wang lingguan 王灵官 is celebrated by the Wenyuandian 文元殿. 5/5: The birthday of Lu xianzhang 卢仙长 is celebrated. 6/6: The birthday of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is celebrated by the entire village all together. 9/9: The feast day of the Heshi Nine Immortals 何氏九仙 is celebrated by the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. On each god’s birthday, opera is performed for two to three days. Funds are contributed on a per capita basis, or through contributions from the Tanban or from Overseas Chinese. 5. Ritual Groups At the Jiulidong 九鲤洞, guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times since 1981. There are more than 110 spirit medium associates Tanban 坛班 . Many of these mediums are dependent families of Overseas Chinese in Singapore and Indonesia. At the Wenyuandi an 文元殿, guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times since 1980. There are over seventy members of the Tanban. There is an Overseas Temple Management Committee. 
V691 Wudunyang 吴墩洋 1. Village settlement Wudunyang is also known as Wuchunyang 吾春洋. The village belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. The population is approximately 500 people, but there are over 1000 Overseas Chinese abroad. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, the Xu 许, and the Zhang 张, with the Huang in the majority. These Huang belong to the Shitting Huang lineage from Zhonghuajia 石庭黄氏中华甲. They have a lineage hall known as the Fuzhang zuci 富章祖祠, in which they worship both their ancestors and Guanyin 观音. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxingtang 福星堂 was recently constructed. The main god worshipped is the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Haotian dizi (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) 昊天帝子, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Lu Shiyuan xianzhang 卢士元仙长, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhou zhenren 卓真人, Jin chiling 金齿 龄, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Dongxi shizhe 东西使者, Nandou xingjun 南 斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Yanluo tianzi 阎罗天子, Niutou Mamian 牛头 马面, and Qinming ducha shenghou Xu daren 钦命都察圣侯徐大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the village participates in the Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong 石庭宫. The incense burners are taken process to each household. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are celebrated on the indicated dates: 1/6 Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, 1/7 Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, 2/25 Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, 3/3 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, 3/15 Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, 4/7 Haotian dizi (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) 昊天帝子, 4/13 Jinchiling 金 齿龄, 5/2 Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, 5/5 Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, 6/6 Fude zhengshen 福德正神, 6/12 Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, 7/15 Xu daren 徐大 人, 7/16 Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, 7/23 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, 8/18 Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, 12/16 Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Dongxi shizhe 东西使者. The god’s birthdays are organized by the village all together, and usually involve several days of opera, but the dates of the performances are flexible. 5. Ritual Groups Spirit mediums and temple representatives participate in the Tanban (altar association) of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. 
V692 Dingjiucuo 顶旧厝 1. Village settlement Dingjiucuo belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. The current village population is approximately 300 people, with over 500 Overseas Chinese living abroad. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Fang 方, with the Huang in the majority. The Huang belong to the Shiting 石庭 Huang 黄 lineage Zhonghuajia 中华甲. The Fang moved from Shangfang 上方 village. 3. Village temples 1) Jiulifendong 九鲤分洞 was built after the Cultural Revolution. Originally the site was that of the Fang 方 ancestral home. Because the gods of the Jiulidong were kept safe in the ancestral home, they later refused to leave, and so the home was rebuilt as a branch temple. The main gods worshipped are Zhaoling erdian zhenjun 昭灵二殿真君 and Shiyuan Lu xianzhang 士元卢仙长. Secondary gods include Xuanzan Zhang yuanshuai 宣赞章元帅, Yuanhui Xie xiansh 元晖谢仙师, Chengguang Wang xianzhang 城光王仙师, Shangyang Zhuo zhenren 上阳卓真人, Sima Zhang shengwang 司马张圣王, Xuantan Zhao yuanshuai 玄坛赵元帅, Liu Jin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Luotian dajiang 罗天大将, Qitian Sun dasheng 齐 天孙大圣, Tongtian Xin shenghou 通天辛圣侯, Huguo Wang langjun 护 国王郎君, Fazhu Ou xianfei 法主欧仙姑, Xunbu Zheng laoye 巡部郑老爷, Han Wengong xianshi 韩文公仙师, Heshi jiuxianweng 何氏九仙翁, Chunyang Lü zhenren 纯阳吕真人, Shande Chen zhanglao 善德陈长老. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the village participates in the Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong 石庭宫. The incense burners are taken to each household. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are celebrated on the dates indicated: 5/5 Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, 6/10 Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, 8/23 Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). Each celebration involves opera performances of two to three days. The celebrations are organized by the Tanban. The remaining god’s birthdays are handled by the Tanban, which is divided into 4 groups to handle the organization of the offerings to the gods. 5. Ritual Groups Since 1987 there have been eight guanjie spirit medium training sessions, and there are over 100 members of the Tanban. They adhere to the Jinlunjiao 金轮教. The Altar master was originally based in the Jiulidong 九鲤洞 in Shiting 石庭. 
V693 Qigancuo 旗杆厝 1. Village settlement Qigancuo belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. Qigancuo village has a population of over 700 people. 2. Surname groups All the inhabitants share the Huang 黄 surname, and belong to the Shiting Huang lineage Zhonghuajia 石庭黄氏中华. There is a Huang lineage ancient home called the Xingqingtang 行庆堂. 3. Village temples 1) Tianyunting 天云亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, with Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰 as secondary gods. 2) Guji Chenghuangmiao 古迹城隍庙 was reconstructed in 2002. The main god worshipped is the Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Tianbaodian 天宝殿 was rebuilt in 2006. It is dedicated to Tuota Li tianwang 托塔李天王 and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the village participates in the Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong 石庭宫. The incense burners are taken to each household. This is organized by each year’s fushou 福首 (fortunate headsmen). Birthday celebrations of the gods On 2/19, 6/19, and 9/19 the feast days of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 are celebrated . On 8/23 the birthday of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅) is celebrated. On each occasion, opera is performed for two days, and the fushou 福首 manage the event. 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium association of Shitinggong 石庭宫 and Jiulidong 九鲤洞. 
V694 Xiaojiaowei 小郊尾 1. Village settlement Xiaojiaowei is also known as Jiucen 旧岑, and is part of the Shidong administrative village 石东行政村. 2. Surname groups All the inhabitants share the Huang 黄 surname, and belong to the Shiting Huang lineage Zhonghuajia 石庭黄氏中华甲. 3. Village temples 1) Guji Mingandian 古迹明安殿 is also considered a spirit medium cavern-temple 洞. The Mingan Cavern-temple is said to have been built in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1505). The cult was kept for a long time inside a private home, where the ancient altar of the spirit mediums of the past was worshipped, and only recently was the temple rebuilt. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊 王, Zhaolie shenghou 昭烈圣侯, Dangmo yuanshuai 荡魔元帅, Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周 仓, Miaolie zhongjun 妙烈中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Douma sheren (Huang Cang) 痘麻舍人 (黄仓), Lingtong sheren (Bai Cang) 灵通舍人 (白 仓), Qingtian yujiang 清天玉将, Lingtong shenghou 灵通圣侯, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Tanqian yuanshuai 坛前元帅, Jiucha buyuan 纠察部 院, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 2) Dongyou Mingandian 东游明安殿 divided off from the Guji Mingandian 古迹明安殿, and is also known as the Dongyoudong 东游洞. This temple was rebuilt in 2000. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天大 帝. The secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhaolie shenghou 昭烈圣侯, Dangmo yuanshuai 荡魔 元帅, Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Miaolie zhongjun 妙烈中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥 妙将, Douma sheren (Huang Cang) 痘麻舍人(黄仓), Lingtong sheren (Bai Cang) 灵通舍人(白仓), Qingtian yujiang 清天玉将, Lingtong shenghou 灵 通圣侯, Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯, Tanqian yuanshuai 坛前元帅, Jiucha buyuan 纠察部院, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the village participates in the Zhonghuajia 中华甲 procession of the incense burners of the Shitinggong 石 庭宫. The incense burners are taken to each household. This is organized by each year’s fushou 福首 (fortunate headsmen). Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are celebrated on the dates indicated: 2/8 Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 3/3: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 7/23: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君诞. 8/23: Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). Each celebration is marked by two days of opera, and the festivities are organized by the Tanban spirit medium association. All the other god’s birthdays are celebrated by the spirit mediums who are divided into groups for this purpose. 5. Ritual Groups Since 1984, the Guji Mingandian 古迹明安殿 has held nine guanjie spirit medium training sessions and now has a Tanban membership of 120. The Dongyou 东游 Mingandian 明安殿 has held ten guanjie spirit medium training sessions and has over 180 members of its Tanban spirit medium association. 
V695 Tiezao 铁灶 1. Village settlement Tiezao belongs to the Shidong Administrative Village 石东行政村. There are currently close to 1000 people in the village living in over 200 households. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Li 李, the Zhang 张, and the Guo 郭. The Huang 黄 make up more than 80% of the village population, and they belong to the Shiting Huang lineage of Houtingjia 石庭黄姓后亭甲. 3. Village temples 1) Xianlieshê 显烈社, in the Tieshan jing 铁山境, within the Mingwangdian 明王殿. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣 王. Other secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Guangji baodian 广济宝殿 was built in 1996 and consecrated 开光 in 1998. The main god worshipped in Jigong heshang 济公和尚. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lv dongbin 吕洞宾, Taishang laojun 太上老君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Fengxingdian 凤兴殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the Li 李 and Zhang 张 and the Guo 郭 invite the temple incense burners to proceed to their homes to practice the Dao (xingdao). On 1/15, the Huang 黄 invite the incense burners to their homes to practice the Dao (xingdao). On a date early in the second month, determined by divination, there is a procession of the gods around the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of gods 1/23: The birthday celebration of Jigong 济公. 2/15: The birthday celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/7: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each god’s birthday is celebrated with two to three days of opera. the birthday celebrations of gods are organized by the entire village, and funding is contributed on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. Each surname group take turns according to age to become the Fushou 福首. 
V696 Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement Tianzhongyang belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The village has more than 1000 people. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏 大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Yuying shuyuan 育英学院 was built in Jiaqing 20 (1815). The main god worshipped is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods are Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are worshipped on the dates indicated: 2/2: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2/2: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/21: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Each god receives two or three days of opera as an offering. 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium altar association of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. 
V697 Sanzhangcuo 三张厝 1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏 大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 was originally made up of the Fushantang 福山堂 and the Yuxingtang 玉兴堂. This temple was originally built during the Qing Tongzhi period (1862–74), and was rebuilt in 1985, at which time the two temples were combined into one. The main god worshipped is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhou zhenren 卓真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Li daxian 李大仙, Xie daxian 谢大 仙, Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙, Badong daxian 八洞大 仙, Yang tianbing 杨天兵, Li jiangjun 李将军, Zhangdu shenghou 张都圣 侯, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 586 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of Shiting 石庭 Damenjia 大门甲. The event is organized by Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Each god receives two or three days of opera as an offering. 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. The Three in One temple has several tens of adherents. 
V698 Zhaili 寨里 1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi administrative village region 石西行政村. The current population is around 500. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏 大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Tongmingdian 通明殿 was recently rebuilt, and is said to have divided incense and branched off from Wuhoushan 五侯山 in Beigao 北高. The main god worshipped is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. The secondary gods are Yinru tongzi 银如童子, Jide xingjun 记德星君, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Lu xianzhang 卢仙长, Xie zhenren 谢真人, Chen xunbu 陈巡部, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Hufa jiangjun 护法将军, Nandou xingjun 南 斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Leigong 雷公, Dianmu 电母, Fengshen 风神, Yubo 雨伯, Zhaocai tongzi 招财童子, Jinshu tongzi 金书童子. 2) Baiyunfu 白云府 was recently constructed, and has not yet been consecrated. The main god worshipped is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The secondary gods are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by the Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are worshipped on the dates indicated: 1/9: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 4/7: Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). 6/6: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/23: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Each god’s birthday is honored with offerings of two to three days of opera. The celebrations are organized by members of the Tanban 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium altar associations of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. 
V699 Zhongyangcuo 中央厝 1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting 石庭 Huang 黄 lineage of Damenjia 大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Chongxindian 重新殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2) Ciyunan 慈云庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Weito 韦驮 and 迦蓝 are worshipped as secondary gods. 3) Gutingtang 古厅堂 is said to have been the precursor to the Shitinggong 石庭宫. It is now the ancestral house of Damenjia 大门甲公厅. The main gods worshipped are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅), Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6/30: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 9/13: The birthday celebration of a collective offering for all the gods of the Gutingtang 古厅堂诸神诞辰 Each celebration involves two to three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. 
V700 Qiaotouwai 桥头外 1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 1100. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Yumingtang 玉明堂 was built in 1939 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人. 2) Fengmeidian 凤美殿 was rebuilt during the Guangxu period. The main god worshipped is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Other secondary gods include Huangshi xiangfei 黄氏仙妃, Chen jiangjun 陈将军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3) Gutingqian 古厅前 is dedicated to the ancestors of the Huang lineage, and secondarily to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of Shiting Damenjia 大门甲. The event is organized by the Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are worshipped on the dates indicated: 2/2: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/16: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7/28: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 8/21: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Each god is honored with eight days of opera, and the celebrations are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Villagers participate in the Tanban spirit medium altar associations of the Shitinggong 石庭宫 and the Jiulidong 九鲤洞. There are over 100 initiates into the Three in One temple of the village, the Yumingtang 玉明堂. The temples activities are managed by fve Fushou who are selected accordiing to their age and serve in rotation. 
V701 Yuanyangcuo 鸳鸯厝 1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500. Over 600 villagers live abroad as Overseas Chinese, mostly in Southeast Asia (Singapore and Malaysia). A small number live in England, the United States, and Argentina. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄 氏大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Riminglou 日明楼 is a spirit medium cavern-temple (洞) belonging to the Jinlunjiao 金轮教 altar. The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神, Miaolie zhongjun 妙烈中军, Jiutian yuanshuai 九天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang daren 章大人 and Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of the temple) of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. The event is organized by the Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/27: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/2: The birthday celebration of Zhang daren 章大人 and Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Each god’s birthday is celebrated with two days of opera. All elders above 55 are invited to the temple to eat fried noodles. Funds are usually provided by Overseas Chinese. The celebrations are managed by the members of the Tanban altar association. 5. Ritual Groups The Riminglou has a Tanban spirit medium altar association with over 60 members, and has held guanjie 关戒 seven times since 1991. Qitin dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingtong shenghou 灵通圣侯, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Tongtian shenghou 通天圣侯 all descend to possess spirit mediums. Formerly there was a Altar Master 坛主, but now there is a Management Committee 管委会. 
V702 Dingxipo 顶西坡 1. Village settlement Dingxipo belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current village population is over 568. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of members of the Huang 黄, the Liu 刘, the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡 surname groups. The Huang are in the majority, and belong to the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄 氏大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Longshangong 龙山宫 of Denglongjing 登龙境 contains the Wenxingshê 文兴社. The main gods worshipped are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guangping Zhouwang 广平 周王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zongguan houwang (Tiger god) 总管侯王(虎爷), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Haotian dizi (Tiangong yuanshuai) 昊天帝子(田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Jiangou shizhe (Daye) 鉴钩使者大爷, Zhangshan shizhe (Erye) 彰善使者 (二爷). 2) Gaoyuantang Buddhist hall 高源堂 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of their village temple). On 1/14, the Huang 黄 lineage members take part in the xingdao of Shiting Damenjia 大门甲. At the beginning of the 2nd lunar month, on a date decided by divination, the village participates in a joint procession around the boundaries with Xiaxipo 下西坡 and Bangui 半圭 villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/19: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each god birthday is celebrated with two to three days of opera. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are gathered on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium Altar Association, and they have already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. Every year ten Fushou 福首 rotate into the temple committee, on the basis of their age. 
V703 Xiaxipo 下西坡 1. Village settlement This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 1000. 2. Surname groups This is a Huang 黄 single surname village. All the villagers are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄 氏大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Longshangong 龙山宫 contains the Wenxing xishê 文兴西社. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guangping Zhouwang 广平周王, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zongguan houwang (tiger god) 总管侯王 (虎爷), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Qinghuatang Buddhist hall 庆华堂 was built in the Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take part in the xingdao of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门甲. At the beginning of the 2nd lunar month, on a date decided by divination, the village participates in a joint procession around the boundaries with Shangxipo 上西坡 and Bangui 半圭 villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/4: The birthday celebration of Guangping Zhouwang 广平周王. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Wuxian lingguan dadi 五显灵官大帝. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each god birthday is celebrated with two to three days of opera. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are gathered on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The temple has a Tanban 坛班 altar association with over 100 members. Since 1980 there have been six guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. 
V704 Bangui 半圭 1. Village settlement Bangui belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village石西行政村. The current population is around 300. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village, including the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Huang 黄. The Huang villagers are the largest group, and are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Wuxiangong 五显宫 contains the Wenxingshê 文兴社 as well as the Wenxing xishê 文兴西社. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods are Wuxian lingguan dadi 五显灵官大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zongguan houwang (tiger god) 总管侯王(虎爷), Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jin Xiangu 金仙姑, Li Xiangu 李仙 姑, and Xu Xiangu 许仙姑. 2) Tianhusi Buddhist temple 天湖寺 was built during the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the villagers take part in the xingdao (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of their village temple). On 1/14 the villagers take part in the xingdao of Shiting Damenjia 石庭大门 甲. At the beginning of the 2nd lunar month, on a date decided by divination, the village participates in a joint procession around the boundaries with the villages of Shangxipo 上西坡 and Xiaxipo 下西坡. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The birthday celebration of Wuxian lingguan dadi 五显灵官大帝. In celebration of the god, opera is performed for two to three days, and the entire village organizes the event together. Funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association with 28 members. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has been held many times. Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 all descend to possess spirit mediums. 
V705 Houcheng 后埕 1. Village settlement Houcheng was originally known as Xiaxipo 下西坡. This village belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. The current population is around 500. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The Huang surname group is the largest in the village, and they are members of the Shiting Huang lineage of Damenjia 石庭黄氏 大门甲. 3. Village temples 1) Jinshangong 金山宫 (also known as the Beijidian 北极殿) is part of Houshê jing 后佘境 and contains the Xinan qianshê 新 安前社. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 人. The secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都 天元帅, Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Yongfumiao 永福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Lingfengdian 凌峰殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. 4) Wulumiao 五路庙 (also known as the Jinshan zumiao 金山祖庙) is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 5) Gaoming shuyuan 高明书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and secondarily to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the villagers take part in the xingdao procession (visits to individual homes by the incense burners of their village temple). On 2/6 the gods go on a procession around the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods: 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. In celebration of the god, opera is performed for two to three days, and the entire village organizes the event together. Funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association which has held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions several times. They belong to the Lushan Dafayuan 闾山大法院. 
A152 Fengmei qijing (Fengmei sevenfold ritual alliance) 丰美七境Fengmei sevenfold ritual alliance The Fengmei sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Upper Channel of the Jiuliyang irrigation system 九里洋上沟. This area was part of the Tiezaopu 铁皂铺 of Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Dongtian 东田, Xiaxiao 下肖 and Fangwei 方尾 (Fengmei 丰美) were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Bangwei 邦尾, Xiabangwei 下邦尾, Jingtou 井头 and Zhongzhai 中宅 separated off. This area is currently managed by the Fengmei 丰美, Fengshan 丰山 and Houfeng 厚峰 Administrative Villages. Originally, the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance was in Shicen 石岑 neighborhood of Dongtian 东田 village. Due to a conflict between white and black banner alliances, the temple was dismantled in Qing Jiaqing 16 (1811), and each village took various gods back with them to worship. Each village then built its own shê altar and its own temples. The main gods of the main temple were distributed in the following way: Dingbangwei 顶 邦尾 was given Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Xiabangwei 下邦尾 was given Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaxiao 下肖 was given Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Dongtian 东田 was given Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jingtou 井头 was given Falu dutong 法籙都统. Zhongzhai 中宅 probably joined the ritual alliance later, and therefore were not given a share of the gods of the main temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Dongtian 东田, Xiaxiao 下肖, Jingtou 井头 and Zhongzhai 中宅 were part of the black banner alliance, while the village of Xiabangwei 下邦尾 was part of the white banner alliance and Dingbangwei 顶邦尾 was part of the red banner alliance. 
V706 Xiaxiao 下肖 1. Village settlement Xiaxiao is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境. It belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行 政村. There are currently more than 700 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups All villagers are of the Xiao 肖 surname group. The Xiao are divided into four lineage branches: Tianxia 田下, Jucuo 居厝, Jiucuo 旧厝, and Yaodou 窑兜. There originally was an ancestral hall 祠堂 in the village. Dingrou 丁肉 (per capita portions of meat) was distributed on lunar New Year’s Eve. Currently, only three to four generations of ancestors are worshipped. 3. Village temples 1) Wudangdian 武当殿 is in Xiaxiao ritual alliance 下 肖境 and contains the Lixingshê 礼兴社. The temple was built in 1811, when it branched off from the main temple in Dongtian东田. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fuma shenghou 福马圣侯, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jin dajiangjun 金大将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qinglou nüjiang 青楼女将, Sanyan wuyan 三眼五眼, Wencao wupan 文曹 武判, and Zuoyou shizhe 左右使者. 2) Zhenbentang 真本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 claims that there are 476 initiates. 3) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:33 records 250 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, all the gods are taken in a procession to each lineage branch to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 2/3, there is a procession of the gods around the village borders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 are celebrated by the village all together. The rest of the god’s birthdays are organized by each lineage branch: 4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the Jiucuo 旧厝 branch. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣 and Jin dajiangjun 金大将军 is organized by the Yaodou 窑兜 branch. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Fuma shengwang 福马圣王 is organized by the Weicuo 尾厝 branch; 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Tianxia 田下 branch. 5. Ritual Groups Guanjie 关戒 has occurred three times, starting in 1982. The Tanban spirit medium altar association was originally called Benyuantan 本原坛, and the number of members is unknown. 
V707 Xiabangwei 下邦尾 1. Village settlement Xiabangwei is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境. Xiabangwei belongs to the Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行政村. There are currently more than 2100 people living in the village. The village is divided by surname into three jia 甲neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方, the Xu 许, and the Li 李. The Xu is the largest surname group, and has divided into four lineage branches. The Fang and the Li emigrated into the village from elsewhere. Their origins are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Jinlundian 金轮殿 is in Fengmeijing 丰美境 and contains the Lixing qianshê 礼兴前社, which was renovated in Qing Guangxu 31 (1905). The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元 帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Ling jiangjun 灵将军, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Sanyan wuyan 三眼五 眼, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Qinglou diqi 青娄地祗, and Wencao wujiang 文曹武将. 2) Zhenben shuyuan 真本书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–1/14, the gods are invited to each home to xingdao 行道. On 1/17 there is a procession of the gods around the village borders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Fang 方. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Lingguan dadi 灵官大 帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is organized by the entire village all together. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the Xu 许. 5/5: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣 is are organized by the Xu 许. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Xu 许. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Fang 方. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Li 李. 5. Ritual Groups There are more than fifty-six members of the Tanban 坛 班 altar association. There is still one generation of old spirit mediums, and two generations of new mediums. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place five times since 1983. Members of the temple management committee are selected by lineage and by lineage branch. There are 103 members of the board. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected; the Xu 许 pick four, and the Fang 方 and the Li 李 each select one. 
V708 Dingbangwei 顶邦尾 1. Village settlement Dingbangwei is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境 and also belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行政村. There are currently more than 1100 people living in the vil- lage, which is divided into four neighborhoods by surname group. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The next largest surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Yu 俞, Liu 刘, and Cai 蔡. The Chen is divided into three branches, living in three jia 甲. Others like the Zheng and the Liu live in one jia 甲. 3. Village temples 1) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 is in Fengmeijing 丰美境 and contains the Lixing shangshê 礼兴上社. The date of construction is unknown. The main gods worshipped are Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生 大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Falu dutong 法籙都统, Wuan shengjun 武按圣君, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Yuqian zhongjun 御前中 军, and Yongquan zushi 永泉祖师. 2) Zhengshantang Buddhist hall 正善堂 was built in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, gods are welcomed to each jia 甲 to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, a procession is held to return the gods to the temple, and Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 goes on a circuit of the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The birthday celebration of Falu dutong 法籙都统 is organized by the Chen of the third neighborhood 陈三甲. 3/28: The celebration for Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is organized by the entire village. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Chen of the first neighborhood 陈一甲. 6/1: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is organized by the Chen of the second neighborhood 陈二甲. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 are organized by the Zheng 郑, Yu 俞, Cai 蔡, and Liu 刘 of the fourth neighborhood. 7/7: The celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 is organized by the Chen of the second neighborhood 陈二甲. 8/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the entire village. 5. Ritual Groups In 1983, 1995, and 2004 three 关戒 spirit medium training sessions were held. There are still two generations of old mediums, and there are twenty new spirit mediums who have been trained. Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Falu dutong 法籙都统, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 and Qiugong shengjun 邱公圣君 all descend to possess mediums. There is a Mingxiaci 明夏祠 with around thirty Three in One members. 
V709 Jingtou 井头 1. Village settlement Jingtou is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境. It belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰山行 政村. There are currently approximately 500 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The villagers are of the He 何 surname group. The He emigrated from Xinjing 新井 of Jiangkou 江口. The village has an ancestral hall and an ancestral tomb. The main spirit tablet of each household is kept in the ancestral hall. The sweeping of the ancestral tombs is done by the board of directors. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿 is in the Jingtoujing 井头境, and contains the Lixing dongshê 礼兴东社. The temple was built in Qing Tongzhi 7 (1868). The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 (Zhang Xun 张巡), Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Wuan shengwang 武按圣王 (Lei Wanchun 雷万春), Falu dutong 法籙都统, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Yongquan zushi 永泉 祖师, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, gods are welcomed to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, the procession of the gods returns to the temple after inspecting the borders of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The birthday celebration of Falu dutong 法籙都统. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福 德正神. 6/10: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Wuan shengwang 武按圣王. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. On each god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village all together, and funds are gathered according to shêfen (one’s share in the she) “灶分”, that is, by households. 5. Ritual Groups Since 1980, there have been three guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. Each year, people are selected to be Fushou 福首 on the basis of their age, in rotation. 
V710 Dongtian 东田 1. Village settlement Dongtian is part of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境 and also belongs to Fengshan Administrative Village 丰 山行政村. There are currently more than 500 people living in the village. Dongtian is divided into four neighborhoods: Shangcuo 上厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Zhongjiancuo 中间厝, and Weicuo 尾厝. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Ou 欧. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Wudangdian 武当殿 (Fuchengong 福宸宫) is in the Dongtianjing 东田境, and contains the Minanshê 民安社: This temple was built in Qing Jiaqing 16 (1811). The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上 帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘 公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the gods are invited to each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao. On 1/19, the gods go on procession around the village borders and return to the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/23: the birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is celebrated. 5/13: the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is celebrated. These events are organized by the village as a whole. 5. Ritual Groups Since 1980, there have been three guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. 
V711 Zhongzhai 中宅 1. Village settlement Zhongzhai is part of the former sevenfold ritual alliance of Fengmei 丰美七境. It belongs to the Houfeng Administrative Village 后峰行政村. There are currently approximately 400 people living in the village, which is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林, and the Chen 陈. The Zheng has approximately 200 people and is divided into three branches. The Lin 林 and the Chen 陈 each have approximately 100 people. 3. Village temples 1) Beiyuangong 北垣宫 of Zhongchajing 中垞境 contains the Chongxingshê 重兴社, which was originally constructed in Qing Qianlong 60 (1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Xuantan shangdi 玄坛上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the gods are welcomed to each household; On 1/15, a procession is held around the village border, and then the gods return to the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Chen 陈. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the entire village. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Zheng 郑. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the Lin 林 5/5: The birthday celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Zheng 郑. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Zheng 郑. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is organized by the entire village. 5. Ritual Groups Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place three times since 1980. During the Guanjie ritual eight elders are selected to serve as the Bazhengwang 八政王. The number of Tanban 坛班 altar associates is unknown. 
A153 Banliang shisanxiang (Banliang thirteen village ritual alliance) 阪梁十三乡 The Banliang thirteen village alliance is located on the edge of the Jiuliyang irrigation system. Water for irrigation comes from the Upper and Middle Channels of the Jiuliyang irrigation system, and from the springs flowing down from Nangshan 囊山 Mountain. This area was part of the Qinkengpu 芹坑铺 and Tiezaopu 铁灶铺 (police/defense units) of Yongfengli subcanton 永丰里. In the Ming, the villages of Houfang 后坊, Qinkeng 芹坑, Houpu 后埔 and Liangcuo 梁厝 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Houdong 后董, Shangcai 上蔡, Banxi 坂溪, Linban 林坂, Shandou 山兜, Kutang 苦塘 (Ketang 可塘), Liuzhuang 刘庄 and Xiwu 西吴 separated off.Banliang thirteen village ritual alliance The Xiwu Huiqingtang 西吴会庆堂 temple, located on the border between the Yongfengli 永丰里 sub-canton and the Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton, is the main temple of the Banliang thirteen village alliance 阪梁十三 乡的总宫. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Each year with an intercalary lunar third month, the thirteen village alliance of Banliang 阪梁十三乡 joins with the thirteen jia alliance of Tangtou 塘头十三甲 in a collective procession, carrying Xuantian shangdi around the villages of both alliances. In addition, the Qingjingtan 清静坛 temple, located in Houfang 后坊 village, with its Yiyi zushê 仪依 祖社, is another main temple of the ritual alliance. On irregular occasions, the Dongyue Zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 god is taken out for a ritual procession. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the thirteen village alliance of Banliang was part of the black banner alliance. 
V712 Houfang 后坊 1. Village settlement Houfang belong to the Houfeng Administrative Village 厚峰行政村. There are currently more than 1300 people living in the village, which is not divided into neighborhoods. The main livelihood is agriculture, specially the growing of longyan 龙眼. Many villagers leave to work in cities or abroad. This is a traditional Overseas Chinese home village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Fang 方, Cai 蔡, and Xu 许. The Fang 方 make up approximately 60% of the people. The Cai 蔡 and the Xu 许 each have more than 100 people. Their origins and genealogies are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjingtan 清静坛 contains the Yiyi zushê 仪依祖 社. The original date of construction is unknown. The temple was renovated in 1915. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生 大帝. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元 帅, Tiayi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shengshousi Buddhist temple 圣寿寺 was originally built during the Guangqi period 光启 (885–887) by Buddhist monk Xiuyan 秀岩. The monastery was rebuilt or repaired many times, in the Yuan Zhida period (1308–1311), in Yongle 2 (1404), in Jingtai 6 (1455), in Wanli 32 (1604), in Chongzhen 4 (1631), in Kangxi 10 (1671), in Kangxi 24 (1685) and again during Republican period. In 1956, the Buddhist monk Miaode 妙德 and Wuzhou 悟舟 rebuilt it again. The monastery preserves a stele composed in Jingtai 6 (1455), entitled 圣寿寺兴废及田粮数记石 (Stone inscription of the rise and fall of the Saintly Longevity Buddhist temple with a list of land and harvest yields) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:100, No. 90 ) and a second stele composed in Jiaqing 13 (1808) entitled 莆田县正堂示谕圣寿寺业不许僧民 私相典卖碑 (Stele with the Putian district magistrate’s decree forbidding the private pawning or sale of the land or property of the Shengshou Monastery by monks or commoners) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:273, No. 238). 3) Laiposi Buddhist temple 莱坡寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:211). 4) Fengshengsi Buddhist temple 奉圣寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:211). 5) Lipingan Buddhist nunnery 鲤平庵 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZCG, 1992:211). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back from heaven and opera is performed for two days. On 1/13–1/15 the incense burners of the gods are invited to each household to xingdao 行道. Early in the second lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the gods go on procession around the borders of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Fang 方. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/28: The celebration of Dongyue dadi 东岳大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 4/7: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Fang 方. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is organized by the Xu 许. 5/5: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Fang 方. 6/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Cai 蔡. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the Fang 方. 5. Ritual Groups There are 50 members of the Tanban 坛班 altar association. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred three times. The Dongyue zhusheng dadi 东岳注生大帝 god goes on procession around the entire Houfang qijing 后坊七境 on irregular occasions. 
V713 Houdong 后董 1. Village settlements Houdong is part of the Houfeng Administrative Village 厚峰行政村. The current village population is over 300 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups This is a single surname village of the surname Bai 白. The village is sometimes called Baijiazhuang 白家庄. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxingshê 永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, Shangjie Zhu daniangniang 上界朱大娘娘, Baosong furen 抱送夫人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the incense burners of the gods are carried in a procession to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/14 after completing a procession around the village borders and returning to the temple, Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao communal sacrifice. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣诞. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/7: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Shangjie Zhu daniangniang 上界朱大娘. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 12/10: The birthday celebration of Baosong furen 抱送夫人. On each of these god’s birthdays opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association with some 70 members. Since 1984 there have been two cycles or a total of six guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The group adheres to the Lushan dafayuan 庐山大法院. 
V714 Shangcai 上蔡 1. Village settlement Shangcai belongs to the Shixi Administrative Village 石西行政村. There are currently more than 1500 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yang 杨, the Lin 林, the Zheng 郑, and the Yan 严. The number of people for each surname group is unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjingtan 清静坛 of Shangcaijing 上蔡境 contains the Yiyi zushê 仪依祖社. This temple was renovated in 1914. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qingniang nüjiang 清娘女将, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, and Sanyan wuyan 三眼五眼. 2) Dongyousi Buddhist temple 东游寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:210). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the temple are taken in a procession to each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao. On 1/18, the gods go on a tour of inspection around the borders of the village 绕境巡游. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is celebrated. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is celebrated. 9/9: The birthday of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is celebrated. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. The events are organized by the village as a whole and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association, but the number of members is unknown. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred three times, once a year from 1986–1988. 
V715 Banxi 坂溪 1. Village settlement Banxi belongs to the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1000 people. The village is divided into two jia 甲 sections by surname group. 2. Surname groups This village has several surnames, including the Huang 黄, the Liu 刘, the Dai 戴, the Fu 傅, the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. The Huang 黄 and the Dai 戴 are the major surname groups. There is a Huang lineage hall 黄氏宗祠 and a Dai lineage hall 戴氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Banxigong 坂溪宫 and its Anrenshê 安仁社, were rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 36 (1771). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈圣侯, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 belongs to the Fu 傅 and the Li 李 surnames, and is dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Tianwangdian 天王殿 is dedicated to Beishan dawang 北山大王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Huang 黄, the Dai 戴, the Chen 陈, and the Liu 刘 invite the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道. On the following days, 1/12–13 the Fu 傅 and the Li 李 do the same. After the Yuanxiao festival has ended, a day is chosen by divination for the gods to go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊 主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Huang 黄. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 5/5: The celebrating of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Dai 戴. 6/15: The celebration of Beishan dawang 北山大王 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Li 李 7/10: The celebration of Jiushiye 九使爷 ( Jiucha dashen 纠察大神) is organized by the Fu 傅. 9/28: The celebration of Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈圣侯 is organized by the Liu 刘. On each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association with 60 members. They have already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings six times. 
V716 Liangcuo 梁厝 1. Village settlement Liangcuo is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1300 people. The village is divided into two jia 甲 sections by surname. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of members of the Liang 梁 and Dai 戴 surname groups. The Liang are the most important lineage, and are divided into five branches. 3. Village temples 1) Changfu zushê 长福祖社 and the Beijidian 北极殿 of Liangcuo shengjing 梁厝胜境 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guishan dawang 龟山 大王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Heimian Li furen 黑面李夫人 and Disi gong niangniang 第四宫娘娘. 2) Chongxiaodian 重宵殿 was built during the Ming Chenghua period (1465–87) and in 1997 was made a county level cultural preservation site. The main god worshipped is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Qiyundian 齐云殿 is dedicated to Ducha dashen 都察大神. 4) Zhongdoudian 中兜殿 is dedicated to Haotian yuanshuai 昊天元帅. 5) Fudemiao 福德庙 was rebuilt in 1996 and is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, with Weito 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 7) Huang daxianci 黄大仙祠 was built in 1996 by Hong Kong Overseas Chinese from the village, and was consecrated in 1998. The main god worshipped in Huang Daxian 黄大仙. Secondary gods include Chifeng Zhangyu jiangjun 敕封张禹将军 and Chifeng Wangxin xianshi 敕封王幸仙师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Liang 梁 invite the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道. On the following days, 1/14–15 the Dai 戴 do the same. After the Yuanxiao festival has ended, a day is chosen by divination for the gods to go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2/2: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Haotian yuanshuai 昊天元帅. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Guishan dawang 龟山大王. For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association with six spirit mediums 神童 and over 80 futong 扶童 (assistant lads). They have already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings six times. The Mingdetang 明德堂 has a Guanyin dashi goddess association 观音大士神明会, which conducts rituals each year on 1/22. 
V717 Linban 林坂 1. Village settlement Linban is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 500 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of three surname groups, the Yi 伊, the Liang 梁 and the Yu 余. 3. Village temples hangfushe 长福社 and Beijidian 北极殿 of Longshanjing 龙山境 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道. Birthday celebrations of the gods The following gods are celebrated on the dates indicated: 2/2: Qitian dasheng. 齐天大圣. 10/27: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two days, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班spirit medium altar association, and they have conducted 关戒 spirit medium trainings. 
V718 Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement Shandou is also called Nanshan 南山 or Nongshan 农山. It is part of the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current population is over 1000 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈, the He 何, and the Lin 林 are the main surname groups. There are also other surnames, such as the Li李, the Huang 黄 and the Yao 姚, living in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Qingyunmiao 青云庙 is in Qiongshanjing 琼山 境, and contains the Fushoushê 福寿社. This temple was first built in Ming Longqing 4 (1570), and is said to have divided its incense from the Huangbishan in Fuqing 福清黄檗山. In recent years it has been rebuilt. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 人, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神(Jiushi 九使, Shishi 十使, Shiyishi十一使). Secondary gods include Jiu taitai 九太太, Hei jiangjun 黑将军, Bai jiangjun 白 将军 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) 琼山宫 Qiongshangong contains the Qingshoutan 庆寿坛. The main god worshipped is Anling shenggong 安灵圣公. The secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Yuanqian shuyuan 院前书院 was recently rebuilt . The temple is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 the gods are invited from the Qiongshangong to visit each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao. On a day between 1/20–30, determined by divination, Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao 做醮 communal sacrifice, and the spirit mediums seal the crossroads against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Anling shenggong 安灵圣公. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Jiushi 九使. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Shishi 十使. 9/11: The birthday celebration of Shiyishi 十一使. For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two or three days, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association. In 1985 for the first time a guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training was held. Later, because many new spirit mediums moved overseas, in 2006 they held the second round of liantong chijie 炼童持戒 (training mediums to uphold the prohibitions). 
V719 Ketang 可塘 1. Village settlement Ketang was originally called Kutang 苦塘. The village belongs to the Banliang Administrative Village 坂梁行政村. The current village population is approximately 500 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups Ketang village has families of the Lin 林, the Li 李, and Huang 黄 surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社 of Ketangjing 可塘境 was reconstructed in Qing Qianlong xinmao (1771). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhonglie (Tiangong) yuanshuai 忠烈 (田公)元帅, Fumo (Liugong) yuanshuai 伏魔 (刘公)元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu (Chen Zhenren) 天前圣母(陈真人), Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 belongs to the Fu 傅 and the Li 李 surname groups, and is dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. 3) Tianwangdian 天王殿 is dedicated to Beishan dawang 北山大王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burners of the shê altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao. They then go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is marked with two days of opera. On the following occasions, only offerings are laid out: 3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2/2: The birthday of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 4/7 and 8/25: The feast days of Zhonglie (Tiangong 田公) yuanshuai 忠烈 元帅. 4/18: The feast days for Fumo (Liugong 刘公) yuanshuai 伏魔元帅. 7/7: The feast days for the Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. All these occasions are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Anrenshê 安仁社 has a ancient altar 历代古坛 for the spirit mediums of the past, and it has already conducted guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training. 
V720 Shangliuzhuang 上刘庄 1. Village settlement Shangliuzhuang is also known as Dingcuo 顶厝. The village is part of the Liuzhuang Administrative Village 刘庄行政村. The current village population is over 1000 people. The village is not divided into neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The village has the following main surname groups: the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the huang 黄. The Lin 林 are the largest surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Wudanggong 武当宫 of Zhuangshanjing 庄山境 contains the Zhuangshan dongshe 庄山东社. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Xinganmiao 兴安庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the incense burners of the shê altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道. They then go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Tiegong taishi 铁公太师. For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two or three days, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association, and 关戒 spirit medium training has been held. 
V721 Xialiuzhuang 下刘庄 1. Village settlement Xialiuzhuang includes Toucuo 头厝, Zhongyangcuo 中央厝 and Tianzhongyang 田中央. Xialiuzhuang is part of the Liuzhuang Administrative Village 刘庄行政村. The current population is over 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of three surname groups, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 are the largest surname group, and live in Tianzhongyang 田中央. 3. Village temples 1 The Wudanggong 武当宫 of Zhuangshanjing 庄山 境 contains the Zhuangshan zushê 庄山祖社. The main gods worshipped are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Nanyue Heng jiangjun 南岳衡将军, Beiyue Cao jiangjun 北岳曹将军, Beiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 in Tianzhongyang 田中央, is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Qiye 七爷, and Baye 八爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the incense burners of the shê altar are invited to visit each household to xingdao 行道, practice the Dao. They then go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated. 3/23: The birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is celebrated. 3/29: The birthday of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 are celebrated. 6/10: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 are celebrated. For each of these celebrations, opera is performed for two or three days, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Tanban 坛班 altar association, and 关戒 spirit medium training was held twice in 1985 and in 1997. 
V722 Xihu 西湖 1. Village settlement Xihu village was originally called Xiwu 西吴. The village population is over 1400 people. The main livelihood is brick and tile making. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 surname is the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Huiqingtang 会庆堂 contains the altar of the Jiying zhongshê 集英中社. The temple is commonly referred to as the Xihugong 西湖宫, and is the main overall temple of the Tangtou thirteen village ritual alliance 塘头十三甲总宫. The temple was first built in the Ming Chenghua period (1465–1487), and was rebuilt in 1982. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Ma zhongjun 马中军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Dong shizhe 东使者, and Xi shizhe 西使者. 2) Biyundian 碧云殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Nanchen xingjun 南辰星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Hongyundian 红云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Zheng yi Wang lingguan 正一王灵官. 4) Pingtianci 平天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 117 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, the villagers go to the Huiqingtang 会庆堂 to invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 to go on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Huiqingtang 会庆堂. Opera is performed for five days and each year with an intercalary seventh month there is a procession through the entire thirteen village alliance. 5. Ritual Groups The temple management committee of the Huiqingtang 会庆堂 is formed of representatives from each of the thirteen member villages. There are eight spirit mediums, and they have held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions twice. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V723 Qinkeng 芹坑 1. Village settlement Qinkeng village belongs to the Dongting Administrative Village 洞庭行政村. The population of the village is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yao 姚 and the Lin 林. The Yao are related to the Yao of Dongting 洞庭姚. 3. Village temples 1) Qinkengjing Jiying dongshê 芹坑境集英东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都 天元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups There is no tanban 坛班 altar association. 
V724 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement Tangbian village belongs to the Xihu Administrative Village 西湖行政村. The village population is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The village has two main surnames, the Xu 徐 and the Li李. The Xu are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tangbianjing Huixingshê 塘边境会兴社 contains the Taizifu 太子府, and branched off from the Huiqingtang 会庆堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wang Taizi 王太子, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐 天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo dashen 伽罗大圣, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of linked lanterns, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/15: The celebration of Wangtaizi 王太子 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/12: The celebration of Heihu dashen 黑虎大神 is held and opera is performed for two days.']