V101 Changchuan 长川 1. Village settlement Changchuan was originally called Tangsheng 塘塍, Changsheng 长堘, and Changcen 长岑. Changchuan is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Changchua village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, Chen 陈, and Zhang 张. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingtai zushê 兴泰祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu shenghou 土主圣侯. 2) Xinglingdong 兴灵洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 (Fujie gongchen 复界 功臣). 3) Wangmugong 王母宫 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xunan baodaren 巡按包大人. 4) Zhimige 支弥阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Longxingtang 隆兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lingbao tianzun 灵宝天尊, Daode tianzun 道德天尊. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Xingtai zushê 兴泰 祖社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated with performances of opera. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/1–3: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
V102 Xiaban 下阪 1. Village settlement Xiaban is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Xiaban village has approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation to organize the annual rituals: two from the Zhang and two from Chen There are 213 Zhang 张 households, 70 Chen 陈 households, and 20 Wu households, summing up to 303 households in total. The Zhang of Xiaban emigrated from Shadi village 沙堤村 of Huangshi 黄石 in Ming Hongwu 15 (1382). There was a genealogy in the past. There is currently the original site of the Zhang ancestral hall 张氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Hushanjing Xingbaoshê 壶山境兴保社: Middle hall: Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅. Left hall 左殿: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right hall: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Xingxianshê 兴贤社, Lufu 鲁府: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu laoye 土主老爷. Right altar: Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Lufu xiangshou 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Front: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣 先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军. 3) Jinmingci 金明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Jindetang 金德堂: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo 韦驮. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Yongxing Buddhist temple 永兴寺 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 6) Shanjitang Buddhist hall 善继堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 7) Shanan Buddhist temple 善安寺 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/24, the Zhang 张 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê 兴保社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/25, the Chen 陈 take Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê to visit each of their households and to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On these occasions, cookies are distributed to families 分丁饼. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/7: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. Opera is performed for two days. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V103 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement Tiancuo is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Tiancuo village currently has 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zheng 郑. The Zheng of the village emigrated from Hankou 汉口 of Shadi 沙堤 during the Qing Tonggzhi period (1862–1874). There currently exists a Zhengshi jiaozhong ancestral hall 郑氏教忠祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Shenglong shushê 升龙书社: Originally called Deyi dongshê 德义东社, it was built in 1944. There is an extant stele entitled Benxiang lizao sheyu gongjin 本乡立造社宇公禁. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Kaiquan shuyuan 开泉书院: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left altar: Kuidong xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the gods of Shenglong sheshu are invited to go to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao), and a lantern procession is held around the village territory. Opera is performed for two days and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/11: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V104 Shangyuanqian 上院前 1. Village settlement Shangyuanqian is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. The village currently has 408 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhang 张. The ancestors of the Zhang of the village were originally long-term workers (Changgong 长工). They came here during the late Qing Dynasty to watch over the tomb of their patron 财主. Later on, they settled down to start their own clan. 3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙, Anningshê 安宁社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xianying zumiao 显应祖庙: Middle altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xianyingting 显应亭: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Xianyingtang 显应堂: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and Anningshê 安宁社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the village boundaries while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A023 Fengshan six village ritual alliance Dingzhuang  
V100 定庄 1. Village settlement Dingzhuang was originally called Zhengzhuang 郑庄. Dingzhuang is part of the Dingzhuang Administrative Village 定庄 行政村. The entire village has approximately 2000 people. It is subdivided into four shê: the Linshê 林社, Wushê 吴社, Zhangshê 张社, and Songshê 宋社. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 make up 80% of the village population, the Wu 吴 make up 10%, and the Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, Zhou 周, Chen 陈, and Song 宋 together make up the remaining 10%. The Lin are the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. There currently exists a Guoqing Lin ancestral hall 国清林氏 宗祠. The Wu came from Longdu 龙渡 (originally part of Shuinan qianpo 水南钱坡) of Huangshi, and are the descendants of Wu Ying 吴英, the Provincial Commander of the Naval Forces 水师提 under Emperor Kangxi (1662–1722). There currently exists a Wuying Shrine 吴英祠堂 in the village. The ancestral hall of the Wu is near the Chongxingsi 重兴寺, on Huangshi shujie 黄石书街. 3. Village temples 1) Dingzhuangjing Fengshangong 定庄境凤山宫, originally built during the Ming Dynasty, was expanded during the Ming Chongzhen period (1628–1644). The Tanyue master 坛越主, or temple patron, was one Lin Yizhu 林一柱 of Dingzhuang village. The temple was destroyed in 1966 and rebuilt on the original site in 1983. The project was finished in 1992. The main hall is called the Taishifu 太师府, and is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods to the right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and on the side altars: Badajiang 八大将 (Left: Li 李, Xiao 肖, Bai 白, Zhang 张. Right: Liu 刘, Lin 林, Fan 范, Zhao 赵). The Rear Hall is dedicated to Yanggong taishi’s father 圣父 and mother 圣母 (Yang Jiye 杨继业, She Taijun 佘太君). Left altar: Yangfu zhuxiongdi 杨府诸兄弟. Right altar: Yangfu jiuniangma 杨府九娘妈, Yangfu zhujiangjun 杨府诸 将军 (Badajiang 八大将). 2) Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 was rebuilt in 1993 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. 3) Jinli zushê 锦里祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5) Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社 was rebuilt in 2004, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社 was rebuilt in 1982 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wushi taiwangong 吴氏台湾公. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Jinlanting 今兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right altar: Guangong Yuanshuai 关公元帅. 8) Donglongmiao 东龙庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Linshuigong 临水宫 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 10) Fulongtang 福隆堂 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄. 11) Baoen guangde si 报恩广德寺 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. There is an extant Jiaqing 12 (1807) donation stele 捐碑. 12) Fengshan chansi 凤山禅寺 was rebuilt in 1984. The Daxiong baodian 大雄宝殿 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left altar: Weituo 韦驮. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11, the Zhang 张 and the Zhu 朱 invite the gods of Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/12–13, the Lin 林 invites the gods of Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Four fushou 福首 from Linshê 林社 “circle the lanterns 圈灯” (lead the lanterns in a procession in a circle around the village boundaries) while holding the incense burners of the shê-altar. In the past, four Daoist ritual masters 法师 and three Buddhist monks 和尚 were invited to conduct rituals. Nowadays, five Daoist ritual masters accompanied by a drummer conduct the rituals. On 1/14, the Song 宋 invite the gods of Jinli zushê to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. On 1/15, the entire village invites the gods of Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. That day, the gods go on procession around the village territory. On 1/16, the Wu 吴 invites the gods of Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huanjin xishê 浣锦西社. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. These events are organized by Fengshan gong 凤山宫, and a procession around the five sha 五沙 as well as all the villages of Shadi 沙堤 on a selected lucky day. 5/25: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. These events are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. These events are organized by both Jinlan ting 今兰亭 and Baoen guangdesi 报恩 广德寺, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 (Linshui furen 临水夫人). These events are organized by the Zhang 张 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jukui shangshê 聚奎上社. These events are organized by the Wu 吴 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 (Rites of Universal Deliverance) are held. These events are organized by Baoen guangdesi, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huanjin dongshê 浣锦东社. These events are organized by the Zhang 张 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jinli zushê 锦里祖社. These events are organized by the Song 宋 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, from the 11th to the 17th of the 4th and the 8th lunar months, Taishiye 太师爷 goes on procession. 3/6: 
V101 Changchuan 长川 1. Village settlement Changchuan was originally called Tangsheng 塘塍, Changsheng 长堘, and Changcen 长岑. Changchuan is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Changchua village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, Chen 陈, and Zhang 张. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingtai zushê 兴泰祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu shenghou 土主圣侯. 2) Xinglingdong 兴灵洞 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄 (Fujie gongchen 复界 功臣). 3) Wangmugong 王母宫 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xunan baodaren 巡按包大人. 4) Zhimige 支弥阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Longxingtang 隆兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lingbao tianzun 灵宝天尊, Daode tianzun 道德天尊. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Xingtai zushê 兴泰 祖社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites inside the temple. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated with performances of opera. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/1–3: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
V102 Xiaban 下阪 1. Village settlement Xiaban is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Xiaban village has approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation to organize the annual rituals: two from the Zhang and two from Chen There are 213 Zhang 张 households, 70 Chen 陈 households, and 20 Wu households, summing up to 303 households in total. The Zhang of Xiaban emigrated from Shadi village 沙堤村 of Huangshi 黄石 in Ming Hongwu 15 (1382). There was a genealogy in the past. There is currently the original site of the Zhang ancestral hall 张氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Hushanjing Xingbaoshê 壶山境兴保社: Middle hall: Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅. Left hall 左殿: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right hall: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Xingxianshê 兴贤社, Lufu 鲁府: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tuzhu laoye 土主老爷. Right altar: Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Lufu xiangshou 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Front: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣 先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军. 3) Jinmingci 金明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Jindetang 金德堂: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo 韦驮. Right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 5) Yongxing Buddhist temple 永兴寺 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 6) Shanjitang Buddhist hall 善继堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 7) Shanan Buddhist temple 善安寺 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:221) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/24, the Zhang 张 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê 兴保社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/25, the Chen 陈 take Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Xingbaoshê to visit each of their households and to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On these occasions, cookies are distributed to families 分丁饼. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/7: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. Opera is performed for two days. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V014 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement Tiancuo is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Tiancuo village currently has 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zheng 郑. The Zheng of the village emigrated from Hankou 汉口 of Shadi 沙堤 during the Qing Tonggzhi period (1862–1874). There currently exists a Zhengshi jiaozhong ancestral hall 郑氏教忠祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Shenglong shushê 升龙书社: Originally called Deyi dongshê 德义东社, it was built in 1944. There is an extant stele entitled Benxiang lizao sheyu gongjin 本乡立造社宇公禁. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Kaiquan shuyuan 开泉书院: Middle altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left altar: Kuidong xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the gods of Shenglong sheshu are invited to go to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao), and a lantern procession is held around the village territory. Opera is performed for two days and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/11: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. Villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Shangyuanqian 上院前 1. Village settlement Shangyuanqian is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. The village currently has 408 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhang 张. The ancestors of the Zhang of the village were originally long-term workers (Changgong 长工). They came here during the late Qing Dynasty to watch over the tomb of their patron 财主. Later on, they settled down to start their own clan. 3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙, Anningshê 安宁社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xianying zumiao 显应祖庙: Middle altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xianyingting 显应亭: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Xianyingtang 显应堂: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and Anningshê 安宁社 are invited to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). In the evening a lantern procession is held around the village boundaries while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V105 Xiayuanqian 下院前 1. Village settlement Xianyuanqian is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. The village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The only surname group is the Zhang 张. It is of the same ancestry as the Zhang of Shangyuanqian 上院前. There currently exists a Zhang ancestral hall 张氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Xianyingmiao 显应庙: Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Anningshê 安宁社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the gods of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and Anningshê 安宁社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. In the evening a lantern procession is held around the territory while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers participate in the procession of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/23–24: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A024 Huangshi bashê (Huangshi eight shê ritual alliance) 黄石八社 The eight shê of Huangshi are located along the streets and lanes of Huangshi town. This area was part of the Longguilingpu 龙桂岭铺, the Linqingpu 临 青铺, the Shujiepu 书街铺, the Dongzhenpu 东圳铺 of the Jingdeli subcanton 景德里 and the Anxingpu 安兴铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田 里. In the Ming, Huangshi was already a market town, and was already called a qijing (sevenfold ritual alliance). Currently, this area is managed by the Huangshi Residential Committee. The temple ritual system is divided into the following eight shê altars: Guiling 桂岭, Tingxia 亭下, Dongjing 东井, Tangwei 塘尾, Shuyuankou 书院口, Shixia 市下, Shuangxingjing 双星井, and Anxing 安兴. The Shuinan Tianhougong 水南天后宫 of Guiling village is the main temple for the eight shê of Huangshi town. The temple was built in the Ming Hongwu period (1368–98), and was rebuilt and changed into the Shuinan Huiguan 水南会馆 in Qianlong 60 (1795). The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 1/15 the eight shê of Huangshi hold a general Yuanxiao festival, and a collective procession. Each year with an intercalary third lunar month, they invite Tianshang shengmu to go on procession to all the eight shê of Huangshi. Huangshi eight shê ritual alliance This region has long been famous for producing examination graduates, and in the Ming Huangshi town had 56 Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and 193 Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The most prominent lineages were the Fang 方, Huang 黄, Ye 叶, Song 宋, and Weng 翁. In Song Qiandao 8 (1172) a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Huang Ai 黄艾. In Ming Zhengtong 8(1443) a Zhuangyuan (First Place) 状元牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Fang Xie 方澥. In Ming Chenghua 8 (1472) a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Lin Zheng 林正. In Ming Chenghua 16 (1480) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Yue 方岳. Also during the Chenghua period (1465–1487) another Jinyi guidi 锦衣归第牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Xin 方新. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499) a Sishi qingyun 四世青云牌坊 (Four generations of graduates) memorial archway was set up for the Ye lineage 叶. In Ming Hongzhi 14 (1501) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Weng Maonan 翁茂南 and a Xiongdi jinshi 兄弟进士牌坊 (two brothers both Metropolitan Graduates) memorial archway was set up for the Song lineage 宋. Finally, in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1505) a Zhoubo 州伯 牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Huang Wanshuo 黄万硕. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the eight shê of Huangshi were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V106 Guiling 桂岭 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, Guiling is also called Puling 蒲岭. The current population is more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Lu 卢. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing shushê 龙兴书社, Shunqing tang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Sishi dazongshi 四氏大宗师. Left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Shuinan Tianhougong 水南天后宫: Originally built during the Ming Hongwu period (1368–1398), it was renovated in Qianlong 60 (1795). In the same year, the Shuinan huiguan 水南会馆 was established. Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right altar: the father 圣父, and mother 圣母 of Guanyin. 3) Shunqingtang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 lists 1006 initiates, which seems unlikely. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets and lanes of Huangshi township. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every 3/23, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited to go on procession within the entire Shuinan ritual alliance. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V107 Tingxia 亭下 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, there are currently 415 people in the village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Lin 林. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. Right altar: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Left side: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Right side: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets and lanes of Huangshi 黄石 town. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/17: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V108 Dongjing 东井 1. Village settlement The entire village currently has 560 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Li 李. Other surnames include the Ye 叶, Cai 蔡, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Zeng 曾, Yu 余, Shê 佘, Zhang 张, and Cheng 程. The Huang migrated from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江 and have lived in this village for 17 generations. 3. Village temples Zunrong shushê 尊荣书社: Originally called Yongan shushê 永安书社, it was rebuilt in 1922. Middle: 尊主明王 Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left: Tiangong Yuanshuai 田公元帅, Right: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏 真人. Front: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Wugong jishi 吴公吉使, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Zunrong shushê 尊荣书社 are invited to go on procession within its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V109 Tangwei 塘尾 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, it is divided into Shangtangwei 上塘尾 and Xiatangwei 下塘尾. There are currently more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Mixed surname groups 杂姓. 3. Village temples 1) Yutangpu Yulong shushê 玉塘铺玉龙书社: Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, it was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 47 (1782). Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Shanzhongtang 善种堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Chengong yuanshuai 陈公元帅. 3) Kaiyuantang 开元堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, residents participate in the procession of the gods through Huangshi 黄石 town. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. 6/29: The birthday celebration of Chengong yuanshuai 陈公元帅. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. 
V110 Shuyuankou 书院口 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, Shuyuankou currently has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shen 沈, Lin 林, and Su 苏. 3. Village temples 1) Xingqing shushê 兴庆书社: Zhongzuo shenzhang 中座神帐: Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母. Left: Liu shenghou 柳圣候. Right: Jin shenghou 金圣侯. Zuozuo shenzhang 左座神帐: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Youzuo shenzhang 右座神帐: Linshui furen 临水夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Huangshi wenmiao 黄石文庙: Located inside the Huangshi elementary school 黄石小学, this temple is registered as an important cultural relic protected by the Putian county 莆田县. This was the famous Hongquangong 红泉宫 during the Tang Dynasty, known as the Hongquan shuyuan 红泉 书院 during the Song Dynasty, where the renowned scholar Lin Guangchao 林光朝 instructed his disciples in Neo-Confucian doctrines. During the Ming Dynasty, it became Shuinan shuyuan 水南书院. It was destroyed during the invasion of the Japanese pirates, and was rebuilt during the Qing Kangxi period (1662–1722). There are seven stone inscriptions about this temple found in various written sources, but the temple was converted into a school, and only fragmentary remains of stelae can be found on the grounds. The inscriptions are as follows: 1) Chenghua 20 (1484) (by Huang Zhongzhao 黄仲昭) entitled 兴复红泉宫记 (Record of the Renovation of the Red Spring Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:111, No. 98); 2) Jiajing 1 (1522) 新建 水南书院记 (Record of the recent construction of the Shuinan Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:151, No. 128); 3) Wanli 32 (1604) 水南鼎建 文昌祠记 (Record of the construction of the Shuinan Wenchang shrine) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:192, No. 168); 4) Jiaqing 15 (1810 ) 重建水 南书院碑 (Stele on the reconstruction of the Shuinan Academy) [this stele is preserved at the Guchenggong temple in Huangshi, but is scarcely legible] (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:276, No. 241); 5–8) 重建书院董事芳名碑 (Stele listing the names of the managing committee responsible for the restoration of the (Shuinan) Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:277, No. 242) and further stelae entitled 重建书院题捐芳名碑 1–3 (Stele listing the names of the contributors to the restoration of the Shuinan Academy 1,2,3) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:278–281, No. 243, 244, 245); 9) Tongzhi 13 (1868) 莆田县正堂示禁乡民不得蹂躏青山松木碑 (Stele announcing a prohibition on local people gathering wood on Qing Mountain issued by the Putian District yamen) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:330, No. 295) [This extant stele was first erected at the Shuinan Academy but later was moved to the Guchenggong temple, were it can now be found]. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through Huangshi 黄石 town. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 3/13: The birthday celebration of Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V111 Shixia 市下 1. Village settlement Located in Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道, Shixia is divided into the second jia 二甲 and the third jia 三甲 ritual associations. There are currently more than 800 people living in Shixia. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Xingqing shangshê 兴庆上社 was built by its original tanyue master 檀越主 (patron), the Vice-Director of the Ministry of Revenue Huang Yuanjin 黄原谨员外郎. The temple was later rebuilt both in Qianlong 31 (1766) and again in Qianlong 47 (1782). It was renovated in 1987. The temple is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Longxingting 隆兴亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Lufu 鲁府 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Gongyuelou 拱月楼 belongs to the Second jia ritual association. Middle: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Laifenglou 来凤楼 belongs to the Third jia ritual association. Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets of Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 6/9–10: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of Gongyue lou 拱月楼. 6/13–14: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of Laifeng lou 来凤楼. 6/18–19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of Longxing ting 隆兴亭. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V112 Shuangxingjing 双星井 1. Village settlement Shuangxingjing is located in the streets of Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道. The town ward currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, Wu 吴, Li 李, Chen 陈, and Liu刘. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Anmin shushê 安民书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Shenyi zhu xiansheng 神医朱 先生. Right: Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets of Huangshi jiedao 黄石街道. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
V113 Anxing 安兴 1. Village settlement Anxing ward is located in Huangshi town’s streets and lanes (Huangshi jiedao) 黄石街道. The current population of this area is more than 1000 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames included the Chen 陈, Zhu 朱, Zheng 郑, Fang 方, and Wu 吴. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Anmin shangshê 安民上社 was rebuilt in 1993. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Right altar: Xingminshê 兴民社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xianshilou 仙师楼 is dedicated to Qiugong xianshi 邱公仙师. 3) Xingjingting 星井亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Xianyingci 显应祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Left altar: Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化 天尊, Hufa longtian 护法龙天, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官. Right altar: Hufa Jialan 护法伽蓝, Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. 5) Chongxingsi 重兴寺 is dedicated to Shijiamouni 释迦牟尼. The fragments of an early stele composed in Yanyou 3 (1316) and entitled 吴国公看转大藏 经功德记 (Stele recording the merit of Duke of the State Wu’s observing of the rotation of the Great Buddhist Canon) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:64, No. 56) are preserved at the temple. Another stele relating to the temple, the Jiajing 13 (1534) 重兴寺复修记 (Record of restorations to the Buddhist Monastery of Renewed Awakening) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:162, No. 140) is now preserved at the Guchenggong temple, which also preserves a third stele relating to the Buddhist temple, the Qianlong 48 (1783) 重塑 佛像立碑 (Stele erected to record the recarving of Buddhist images) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:253, No. 218). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 residents participate in the procession of the gods through the streets of Huangshi jiedao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Residents participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 
A025 Shaban qijing (Shaban sevenfold ritual alliance) 沙阪七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Shaban is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门. This area was part of the Aoshapu 鳌沙铺 (police/self defense unit) of the Jingdeli sub-canton 景德里. In the Ming, this area had a village called Shaban 沙阪. In the early Qing two other villages separated off, namely Dutou 度头 and Jindunli 金墩里. Currently the area has a population of over 7000 people, and is administered by the Shaban Administrative Village 沙坂行 政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into the seven ritual associations of Qiaotou 桥头, Xicuo 西厝, Bantou 阪头, Sheqian 社前, Shuxia 树下, Tianba 田坝, Jindun 金墩, and Longdu 龙度. Jinsha lishê 金沙里社 temple of Sheqian 社前 village is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each shê goes to the Jinsha lishê to present incense, and to invite the gods. Each year during the fifth lunar month, each shê in rotation goes to the Guchenggong temple in Huangshi to invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 back Shaban sevenfold ritual alliance to their village to watch opera. On a day determined by divination, they hold a collective procession. The main surname groups are the Jiang 蒋, Huang 黄, Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, Shen 沈 and Wu 吴. Because each lineage lives in close proximity to the others, each jing association has some members of each of the major surname groups. The main source of livelihood is agriculture, although some people work as brick layers 泥工, carpenters 木工 and stone cutters 石工. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Shaban were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V114 Qiaotou 桥头 1. Village settlement Qiaotou is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. Qiaotou village has a population of approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Jiang 蒋. The Jiang ancestor, Master Maohan 茂汉公 settled here during the late Ming Dynasty, and the Jiang have lived in the village for 20 generations from that time. There is a Jiang ancestral hall 蒋氏宗祠. Every year, there are six Fushou 福首 who are rotated into positions of responsibility. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 is co-owned with Xicuo 西厝 village, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, along with Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Jinyitang 精一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 lists 610 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/8 the gods of the Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V115 Xicuo 西厝 1. Village settlement Xicuo is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. Xicuo village has a population of approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 is located in Qiaotou 桥头, but is co-owned by Xicuo village. 2) Lingxiaodian 凌宵殿 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and in the rear hall, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/14 the gods of the Jinsha shangshê 金沙上社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V116 Bantou 阪头 1. Village settlement Bantou is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Bantou has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. There is a Shen ancestral hall 沈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Kaixiatang 开夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Right: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners of the shê altar 社炉 are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/15 the gods of the Jinsha zushê 金沙祖社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. On 2/6 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held. 
V117 Shêqian 社前 1. Village settlement Shêqian is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Shêqian has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Liao 廖 and the Chen 陈. The Zhang surname group in the village migrated from Hengtang 横塘 of Huangshi 黄石. Their genealogy 族谱 has been lost, and there are currently more than 70 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha lishê 金沙里社 (Zhongshê 忠社) was built in Guangxu 2 (1876) and renovated in 1989. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Wanggong shenghou 王公圣侯 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/10 the gods of the Jinsha lishê 金沙里社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. During the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V118 Shuxia 树下 1. Village settlement Shuxia is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Shuxia currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, which is only a minority. Three fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples Jinsha Nanhu zongshê 金沙南湖宗社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the incense burners of the shê altar 社炉 are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/12 the gods of the Jinsha Nanhu zongshê 金沙南湖宗社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V119 Tianba 田坝 1. Village settlement Tianba is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Tianba currently has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Qi 祁 and the Peng 彭. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Xu 许. Two fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples 1) Jinsha dongshê 金沙东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) 后果寺 Houguo temple was a branch temple of Gufeng temple 鼓峰寺 and was built by Master Zhuren 竹仁 in the Guangxu period (1874–1908) (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao (practice the Dao), and at night lanterns are taken on procession. On 1/7 the gods of the Jinsha dongshê 金沙东社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. In the afternoon, Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods During the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V120 Jindun 金墩 1. Village settlement Jindun is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. The village of Jindun currently has more than 840 people. Agriculture is their main livelihood. 2. Surname groups Surname groups include the Huang 黄 (more than 60 households), Chen 陈 (20 households), Zheng 郑 (15 households), Li 李 (8 households), Qiu 邱 (2 households), Fang 方 (5 households). The Huang came from the Huangxia village 黄霞村 of the Hanjiang area 涵江区, and branched out to Xicuo 西厝 of Shaban 沙阪. There originally was a lineage genealogy 族谱, but it went missing. Four fushou 福首 are rotated each year. 3. Village temples 1) Jindunjing Xixingshê 金墩境西兴社, Jindungong 金墩宫: Rebuilt in Qing Guangxu 21 (1895), the temple was renovated in 1987. Middle altar: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Huilongtan 回龙坛 is dedicated to Linshui furen 临水夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Hualongan 化龙庵: Middle altar: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left: Weituo tianzun 韦驮天尊. Right: Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨. Middle of front: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Jishantang 积善堂 is dedicated to Daxiong 大兄. 5) Guangming temple 广明寺 (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 6) Wanshn temple 万善寺 was built in Guangxu 32 (1906) and was rebuilt in 1975. (PTZJZ, 1992:217). 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions In the afternoon of 1/11, horses are ridden into the shê and all the neighborhoods of the entire village are inspected. Gods including Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公 元帅 go on procession, carried in sedan chairs by young men who recently got married. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. In the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi of Gucheng gong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 11/17: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime is conducted at Jishantang 积善堂. 
V121 Longdu 龙渡 1. Village settlement Longdu is part of the Shaban Administrative Village 沙阪行政村. This village is also called Yindutou 银渡头 and Cendutou 岑渡头. The village currently has more than 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Wu 吴. Other surnames include the Shen 沈, Chen 陈, and Jiang 蒋. Four fushou 福首 are rotated each year according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Aotoushê 鳌头社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhaoling zhenjun 昭灵真君, Wanggong shenghou 王公圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Jin daren 金大人, Wu daren 吴大人, Liu daren 刘大人. 2) Qingwugong 清武宫 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left: Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. To the right: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The rear hall is dedicated to Bao tianzi 鲍天子. Left altar: Xu daren 徐大人. Right altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Mingfatang 明发堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. To the sides are Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Bao tianzi 鲍天子. 4) Mingfaci 明发祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left: Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. To the right: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 5) Daonan Buddhist temple 道南寺 was built during in Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZ, 1992:217) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Aotoushê 鳌头社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals in the afternoon. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫 on a day determined by divination. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Bao tianzi 鲍天子 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette opera is performed. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. In the 5th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/18: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/6: 6/24: 7/16: 8/18: 9/9: 10/27: 
A026 The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Mariontette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Mariontette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 rites are performed. Dengying wucun (Dengying five village ritual alliance) 登瀛五村 The five village ritual alliance of Dengying is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Yangcheng sluice gate 洋城 斗门. The area was part of the Dengyingpu 登瀛铺 (police/defense unit) of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming there were two villages here, Kengbing 坑柄 and Xiawu 下吴. In the Qing three villages separated off: Wucheng 吴埕, Chengwei 埕尾, and Keli 珂里. Currently the region is administered by the Dengying Administrative Village 登瀛行政村. The Dengying shushê 登瀛书社 temple, located in Keli 珂里 village, is the founding shê temple of the five village alliance of Dengying. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Formerly the five village alliance held a collective procession and rites, but these have not yet been revived. During the Song, this area was settled by the Wu surname 吴, and in the Ming the Wu and the Chen 陈 lineages produced examination graduates. In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) a Dengyun 登云牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Chen Ying 陈莹. In Ming Tianshun 6 (1462) a Jinshi memorial archway 进士牌坊 was set up in honor of Chen Zai 陈载. And in Ming Chenghua 1 (1465), Wu Xixian 吴希贤 was honored with a Dengying memorial archway 登瀛牌坊. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five village ritual alliance of Dengying were all members of the red banner alliance. 
V122 Wucheng 吾埕 1. Village settlement Originally called Wucheng 吴埕, the entire village has approximately 500 people. Dengying sevenfold ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Weng 翁 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu shushê 集福书社 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Longxingting 隆兴亭, Pojiegong 婆姐宫 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Right: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Back hall: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春. 3) Yulingong 毓麟宫 is dedicated to Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Left: Linshui furen 临水夫人, Right: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 4) Wanshantang 万善堂 is dedicated to Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry forth the Dao) and then take the gods on a procession within the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫 on a day determined by divination. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V123 Chengwei 埕尾 1. Village settlement The entire village of Chengwei currently has more than 700 people, which comes to approximately 150 households. 2. Surname groups According to the survey data from 1993, there are 60–70 Zeng 曾 households, 40–50 Fang 方 households, and 30 Zhu 朱 Households. Other surnames include the Yao 姚 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Xingxianshê 兴贤社, Baoshangong 宝山宫: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Right altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 are invited to go on procession within the village territory and run through the street in the early morning 凌晨. Three Fushou 福首 are selected. Daoist masters are invited to conduct the ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/8: The birthday celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are held. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/13: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to the temple to watch opera. 
V124 Kengbing 坑柄 1. Village settlement The village of Kengbing has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingheshê 兴和社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yangxiandong 阳仙洞 is dedicated to Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Left: Sun tongzi 孙童子. Right: Hu hufa 胡护法. 3) 狮山祠 Shishanci is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江 (SJCDCB, 1992:37). 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/19, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette opera is performed. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/13–20: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/15: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted. Marionette opera is performed. 
V125 Keli 珂里 1. Village settlement The village of Keli currently has 650 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. According to the survey data from 1993, there are 70–80 Chen 陈 households, 20 Qiu 邱 households, 15 Zou 邹 households, 15 Yu 余 households, 10 Zhu 朱 households, 5 Liu 刘 households, and one Cui 崔 household. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口, while the Qiu 邱 came from Gushi county 固始县 in Henan 河南 and the Zhu 朱 came from Jingpu 井埔 of Huangshi 黄石井埔. 3. Village temples Dengying shushê 登瀛书社: Co-owned by Keli 珂里, Kengbing 坑柄 and Gouweitou 沟尾头, this temple is one of the 24 Pu gong 铺宫 (Pu Temples). It was renovated both in the 1925 and in the summer of 1990. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯 and Linshui furen 临水夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village territory and run through the streets in the early morning 凌晨跑街. Four Fushou 福首 are selected. The gods are returned to the temple at night and Daoist ritual masters conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/3–5: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Gucheng gong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V126 Xiahu 下湖 1. Village settlement Xiahu was originally known as Xiawu 下吴. The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Jifu xinshê 集福新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê altars 社炉 are taken to every household to practice the Dao and to go on procession within the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated by participating in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
A027 Qingjiang Sancun (Qingjiang three village ritual alliance) 清江三村 Qingjiang is also known as Qingpu 清浦, and is located between the main channel in front of the Yangcheng sluice-gate 洋城斗门前大沟 and the main channel in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟within the Mulan irrigation system. This area was part of the Qingjiangpu 清江铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. The area was already developed in the Ming, and was called a qijing (sevenfold ritual alliance) at that time. The area now has over 10, 000 people, and it is divided into the three Administrative Villages of Qingzhong 清中, Qingqian 清前, and Qinghou 清后. The Beijidian 北极殿 and the Lingcigong 灵慈宫temples in Qinghou 清后 are the main overall temples of the Qingjiang three village ritual alliance. These temples are jointly managed by a temple committee made up of representatives of the three villages of the alliance and the rituals of the temples are also jointly organized. The main god of the Beijidian 北极殿 is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, while the main god of Lingcimiao 灵慈庙 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every ten years, Xuantian shangdi is taken on a procession around the three villages of the alliance. This area was famous in the Ming for producing examination graduates, and the six lineages of the Zhou 周, Weng 翁, Lin 林, Chen 陈, Huang 黄 and Zheng 郑 together had nineteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and forty-six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Zhou lineage alone produced twelve Jinshi 进士 and twenty-five Juren 举人. In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441) a Dengke 登科牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Zhou Ying 周莹. In Ming Zhengtong 9 (1444) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Weng Shizi 翁世资. In Ming Zhengtong period (1436–1449) a Lianfang 联芳牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Weng lineage 翁. In Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Zhou Zhe 周哲. In Ming Chenghua 9 (1473) 
A027 Qingjiang three village ritual alliance a Zhenjie 贞节牌坊 memorial archway was set up for the Zhou lineage 周. In Ming Hongzhi 9 (1496) a Xiuyi 繡衣牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Zhou Jinlong 周进隆. There is a Zhou Ancestral hall. The Gui Yuanci 桂苑祠 of the Zhou Lineage preserves a stele composed in Chenghua 16 (1408) entitled 清江周氏宗 祧碑铭 (Stele inscription on the Qingjiang Zhou lineage Hall of the Remote Ancesters) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 107, No. 96). The text of a stone inscription about this or a related lineage hall was composed in Zhengde 12 (1517) by Lin Jun 林俊, and is entitled 周氏西族总祠记 (Record of the main hall of the western branch of the Zhou lineage) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 141, No. 120). In the late Qing feuding banner alliances, the three village ritual alliance of Qingiang was part of the white banner alliance. 
V127 Qingzhong 清中 1. Village settlement Qingzhong is managed by the Qingzhong Administrative Village 清中行政村. The entire village currently has more than 2800 people. It is divided into Jiakou 加口, Dongqian 东前, and Qiantang 前塘. 2. Surname groups The Weng 翁 makes up 60% of the total population. There are also more than 800 of the Zheng 郑 surname group and more than forty of the Lin 林 surname group. The ancestors of the Weng are said to have emigrated from near Matou 码头 of Beigao 北高 in the Jiewai 界外 region—evacuated in the early Qing, some 300 years ago. It is said that in the past, this village achieved the extraordinary record of Sanke liujinshi 三科六 进士 (attaining six Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) in three examinations). There is currently a lineage genealogy and a large and a small ancestral hall. The ancestral tombs are in Matou 榜头 of Beigao 北高. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Weimingmiao 清江境威明庙, Qingyun shushê 清云书社 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle altar: Jiucha dashen 纠察大神, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Liutaigong 刘太公, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, and Liudajiang 六大将. 2) Baoshantang 宝山堂 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle altar: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 3) Zhenjiean 贞节庵 was built in 1916. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 4) Huisantang 会三堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 lists 851 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/20, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are taken on a procession around the village. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. This is co-hosted by Jiakou 加口 and Dongqian 东前. Each year, fifteen to twenty head persons (Touren) 头人 are selected. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the three village alliance. Every ten years, a procession within the three village alliance is held. Beginning of 10th lunar month: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of the gods of Baoshantang 宝山堂 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 
V128 Qinghou 清后 1. Village settlement Qinghou is managed by the Qinghou Administrative Village 清中行政村 The entire village currently has 3400 people. It is divided into Houtang 后塘, Dongzhou 东周, Xizhou 西周, Gelaotou 阁老头 and Xifu 四辅. 2. Surname groups The Zhou 周 makes up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. The ancestors of the Zhou emigrated from Henan 河南 province, and the Zhou are divided into two big branches: Jiyong 继勇 and Ciuqu 翠渠. The Jiyong branch is further divided into five more branches, of which the fifth branch has the most people, with approximately 400 people. There is a Jiyongci 继勇祠, which is a cultural relic under state protection 文物保护单位. There is a zucuo 祖厝 (ancestral house ) and a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Beijidian 清江境北极殿 is the main temple for Qing jiang. There is a front and a back hall. The temple is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left: Dongyue dadu and Zhusheng niangniang 东岳大帝, 注生娘娘. On the right: Sanyuan sanguan dadi 三元三官大帝. In front: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wang linggong 王灵宫, Badajiang 八大将, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. The back hall is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left: the father of the god 圣父 and the mother of the god 圣母, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Right: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Dizangwang 地藏王. This temple preserves a stele from Tongzhi 5 (1863) by Lin Shouxu 林寿煦 entitled 创建清江元天上帝殿碑 (Stele on the construction of the Temple of the Emperor of Primal Heaven in Qingjiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:324, No. 289). 2) Lingcimiao 灵慈庙 is the main temple of the village. Originally built during the Yuan Dade period (1297–1307), it is now a county-level cultural preservation site 县级文物保护单位. The temple is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Left: Gongzheng mingwang 恭正明王 (Sheji shentan 社稷神坛), Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. Right: Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Front left: Baogong yuanshuai 鲍公元帅, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Zhang situ 张司徒, Jin dashi 金大使, Front right: Zucheng shengwang 祖成圣王, Majiangjun 马将军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Jin ershi 金二使. Right hall: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. (According to a local legend, the statues of Bao Yuanshuai, Jin Jiangjun and Zhang Situ were said to have been brought back to the village by one Zhou Rong 周荣, an ancestor of the Zhou, as he returned to his hometown after holding the office of Zhifu (Prefect) 知府 somewhere in Jiangxi province. Jin Jiangjun was a monster. Bao Yuanshuai and Zhang Situ followed the monster down into a deep pond and died. Afterwards, they told their story to Zhou Rong in a dream. Zhou Rong drew the portraits of these three deities and placed the portraits in the local temple. When Zhou Rong was returning home after retirement, the tides were so high that he was unable to go back home. He remembered the dream, and brought the portraits back with him to Putian. This is why Tianhougong 天后宫 has statues of these three gods). 3) Chongxia tang 崇夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian mayuanshuai 五显马元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims 1011 initiates. 4) Qingyunshê 清云社 is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jiucha yuanshuai 纠察元帅. 6) Qingyongsi 清永寺 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Dongzhou 东周 invites Baogong yuanshuai 鲍公元帅, Jin Jiangjun 金将军 and Zhang Situ 张司徒 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. Opera is performed for two days. Each year, ten people take turns, rotating into position according to age, to be the host of the ritual (the Fushou). On 1/9, Xizhou 西周 invites Zucheng shengwang 祖成圣王 and Gongzheng mingwang 恭正明王 to go on procession within their territory. Opera is performed. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. Each year, two people take turns, rotating according to age, to be the host (Fushou). On 1/10, Gelaotou 阁老头 and Sifu 四辅 invite Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on procession within their territory. Opera is performed. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 1/13, Houtang 后塘 takes the gods of Jiuchamiao 纠察庙on a procession within their territory. Later the date was changed to 1/10. On 1/13, a general Yuanxiao 元宵 festival is held. On 1/26, the Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums) of Qingyunshê 清云社 perform feats of impervious ness to pain by stepping into the flames of a massive Roman candle 冲花. After the bell drums have sounded and the spells have been recited, the fireworks are lit and the Shentong 神童 (spirit medium) charges into the flames with his chest bared. Currently, the Fushou take turns according to age to be the head host. Each year, there are ten Fushou selected from Dongzhou 东周 and two from Xizhou 西周. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct Yuanxiao 元宵 rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Chongxiatang 崇夏堂. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. These events are organized by the three villages of Qingjiang. Every 10 years, the gods are carried in a procession around the three villages. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the entire village. 3/26: The birthday celebration of Baogong yuanshuai 鲍公元帅, Jinjiangjun 金将军and Zhangsitu 张司徒. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fourth branch of the Zhou 周. 4/25: The birthday celebration of Zucheng shengwang 祖成圣王. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Chongxiatang 崇夏堂. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Gongzheng mingwang 恭正明王. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the entire village. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Zhou 周 of Gelaotou 阁老头 and Sifu 四辅. 10/10: The birthday celebration of the gods of Jiuchamiao 纠察庙. These events are organized by the Qianhoutang 前后塘. 10/28: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 Rituals of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts are held at the Chongxiatang 崇夏堂. Three in One Scripture Masters (or Daoist ritual masters) 师公 are invited in groups of five to seven. 
V129 Qingqian 清前 1. Village settlement Qingqian is managed by the Qingqian Administrative Village 清前行政村. The village has approximately 4000 people, and includes four natural villages: Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Houdu 后度, and Xiaoqiaotou 小桥头. Each village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups In the village, the Lin 林 and the Weng 翁 are the majority. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Xu 徐, and Huang 黄. The Weng have the same ancestors as do the Weng living in Qingzhong 清中. The Lin have approximately 1500 people. It is said that their ancestors begged their way to Putian from Henan province 河南 and Anhui province 安徽. Their ancestral tombs are in the Lingnanpu 岭南浦 of Huian 惠安. Each year, representatives are sent to Hui’an to commemorate their ancestors. The Lin of the village are divided into four big branches: Dongfang 东房, Xifang 西房, Houcuofang 后厝房, and Chaomi huafang 炒米花房, of which the Dongfang branch has the most people, with approximately 300. There currently exists an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Qingjiangjing Zhongyougong 清江境忠佑宫 is the main temple of the village and was rebuilt in Daoguang 17 (1837) and again in 1986. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 (Aotouma 鳌头妈). Front left: Xiao jiangjun 肖将军, Sanye 三爷. Right altar: Li jiangjun 李将军, Siye 四爷. 2) Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is located in Houdu 后度. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is subdivided into Dongshê 东社, Xishê 西社, and Zhongshê 中社. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Zongaotang 宗鳌堂 was built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–1566). Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Puzhaosi 普照寺 was originally called Xiaoqiaoan 小桥庵, and was built in the Yuan Dynasty by Zhou Xinjian 周心鑑. The Buddhist monastery was rebuilt as the Puzhaosi in Ming Tianqi 5 (1625) by Zhou Rupan 周如磐. There currently exists a stele dated Qianlong 31 (1766) called Chongxiu puzhaoqiao beiji 重修普照桥碑记. The front hall is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The back hall is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦文佛. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, The Xu 徐 of Dongshê 东社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. Opera is performed. One Three in One Scripture Master is invited. Each year, four people take turns, rotating according to age, to become hosts 福首 (Fushou). On 1/16, the Wu 吴 of Zushê 祖社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Houdu 后度. One scripture master 经师 is invited. On 1/17–18, the Lin 林 of Zhongshê 中社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Dongzhi and Xizhi 西 至. Opera is performed. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited. Each year, five people are selected to be the host of the ritual. On 1/18, the Weng 翁 of Xishê 西社 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Aotouma 鳌头妈 to go on procession within Xiaoqiaotou 小桥头. Opera is performed. One Three in One scripture master 经师 is invited. Each year, five people are selected to be the Fushou. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Zongaotang 宗鳌堂. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the three shê alliance. Every ten years, the god is taken on a procession around the three villages of Qingjiang 清江. 4/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xishê 西社. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongshê 中社. Opera is performed for two days. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dongshê 东社. Opera is performed for two days. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Zongaotang 宗鳌堂. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by Zongaotang 宗鳌堂. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the three-fold shê. 11th lunar month: on a day determined by divination, 下元普度 Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 in groups of nine, and a Ritual Space of the Dao (daochang) 道场 is set up. Marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed for two days. 
A028 Xihong liushê (Xihong six shê ritual alliance) 西洪六社 
V130 Xihong 西洪 1. Village settlement Xihong is a natural village as well as an administrative village. Xihong is stretched out along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This was part of the Xihongpu 西洪铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. Xihong was already a large village in the Ming dynasty. Currently Xihong has over 6000 people, and is divided into three neighborhoods: Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至 and Zhonggu 中谷, all of which are managed by the Xihong Administrative Village 西洪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to lineage into six shê ritual associations. The six shê of the ritual alliance of Xihong were all part of the black banner alliance at the end of the Qing. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 许, Li 李, and Chen 陈. There are also the smaller surnames of Guo 郭, Lin 林, Xie 谢. 1200 villagers are surnamed Xu 许 and live in Dongzhi 东至, 2000 are surnamed Li 李 and live in Dongzhi 东至 and Zhonggu 中谷, 1200 are surnamed Chen 陈 and live in Zhonggu 中谷 and Xizhi 西至, 600 are surnamed Guo 郭 and live in Dongzhi 东至, 380 are surnamed Lin 林 and live in Zhonggu 中谷, approximately 200 are surnamed Xie 谢 and live in Zhonggu 中谷. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾 and there currently exists an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. The Chen 陈 emigrated from Kuokou 阔口 of Putian 莆田 and are divided into two branches: Houzhi 后至 and Zhongjian 中间. The Houzhi branch has approximately 800 people while the Zhongjian branch has approximately 400 people. The Xu emigrated from Jiewai 界外 and are divided into two branches: Qianfang 前房 and Houcuo 后厝. There is an ancestral hall which is used as a school now. The Guo 郭 are divided into two branches: the head branch has more than 500 people while the second branch has approximately 100 people. There is an ancestral hall. The Xu 许 emigrated from Yangcheng 洋埕, and has one branch and one ancestral hall. The Xie 谢 has no branches. 3. Village temples 1) Yuxijing Yuxici 玉溪境玉溪祠: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, this is the main temple for the six shê ritual alliance of Xihong. It was originally built during the Jiajing period (1522–66), and was rebuilt in 1983. It is one of the four famous temples of Putian. The temple is dedicated to the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 (Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩). Secondary gods include Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Li Mingdeng 李明灯, Lu Wenhui 卢文辉. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀, Wenchang dijun 文昌 帝君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. Middle hall is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Huiqing xianshi 惠庆 先师, Wenyuanshuai 温元帅, Kangyuanshuai 康元帅, Mayuanshuai 马元帅, 
A028 Xihong six shê ritual alliance Zhaoyuanshuai 赵元帅. Rear hall is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Side altars: Yuzhu tianzun 玉珠天尊, Leibu tianzun 雷部天尊, Lingguan tianzun 灵官天尊, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 states that there are 500 initiates. 2) Xingfushê 兴福社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, this temple belongs to the Xu 许. Middle: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 3) Fuxingshê 福兴社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, this temple belongs to the Li 李. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang司马圣王, Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 4) Fuanshê 福安社: Located in Dongzhi 东至, it belongs to the Guo 郭. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 5) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, it belongs to the Li 李. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 6) Shangxianshê 上贤社: Located in Zhonggu 中谷, it belongs to the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is lifted up during the Yuanxiao processions. 7) Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社: Located in Xizhi 西至, it belongs to the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Baima xianggong 白马相公, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 8) Mingdean 明德庵 was built in 1914. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 9) Yaofeng temple 遥丰寺. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 10) Mingdaotang 明道堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1331 initiates. 11) Mingdeng zuci 明登祖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 880 initiates. 12) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 950 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Fuxingshê 福兴社 invites Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/8, Xingfushê 兴福社 invites Baima xianggong 白马相公 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/10, Shangxianshê 上贤社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within Zhonggu 中谷. On 1/11, Fuanshê 福安社 invites Baima xianggong 白马 相公 to go on procession within Dongzhi 东至. On 1/12, Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 invites Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within Zhonggu 中谷. On 1/16, a common Yuanxiao celebration is held. Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is invited to go on procession within the entire village. The beating of the gongs and the carrying of the sedan chairs are left to the children. The adults lead the way. One to three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. A daochang 道场 Daoist altar is set up. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for three days. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Opera is performed for two days. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. Opera is performed for three days. The god is taken on procession around the entire village. 5/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. Opera is performed for two days. 7/28: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 of Yuxici 玉溪祠. Opera is performed for two days. Seven scripture master are invited. A daochang 道场 is set up and the Jiao is constructed 建醮. The Three in One temples of every region send representatives to participate. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinxian shushê 兴贤书社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the entire three shê alliance. 9/3: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社. Opera is performed for two days. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê 福安社. Opera is performed for two days. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingfushê 兴福社. Opera is performed for two days. 10/29: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted. Water lanterns 水灯 are released using boats. Food and offerings are placed at unclean places (where there are water ghosts). Marionette versions of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed for two days. Services are done for all the villagers who died an unnatural death. Five to seven Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. In the 11th lunar month: on a day determined by divination, Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 in groups of nine, and a Ritual Space of the Dao (daochang) 道场 is set up. Marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed for two days. 
A029 Qiaodou wucun (Qiandou five village ritual alliance) 桥兜五村 The five-fold village ritual alliance of Qiaodou is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This area was part of the Ninghaipu 宁海铺 and the Dongwupu 东吴铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里, and the Yudai Xilipu 余埭西利铺 of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming, this area had two villages: Xiadai 下埭 and Ninghai 宁海 (Qiaodou 桥兜) and in the early Qing, three more villages separated off; these were Xiajiangtou 下江头 in Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton and Xili 西利 and Yudai 余埭 in Putianli 莆田里 sub-canton. The Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 temple, located in Qiaodou 桥兜 village, is the main temple for the five village ritual alliance. The main god is Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Each year in the beginning of the second lunar month, the five villages hold a collective procession and rites in honor of Jiaocha dashen. There were no examination graduates from this region, and the origins of the different surname groups are rather complex, but each surname maintains its own relatively independent settlement, so each village has its own main surname group. In the late Qing feuding banner alliance, the villages of Qiaodou 桥兜 and Xiadai 下埭 were part of the red banner alliance, while Xiajiangtou 下江头 and Yudai 余埭 were part of the black banner alliance, and Xili 西利 was part of the white banner alliance. 
V131 Qiaodou 桥兜 1. Village settlement Qiaodou was originally called Ninghai 宁海. Qiadou is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村. Qiaodou village currently has more than 1000 people. A stele composed in Wanli 25 (1597) entitled 重修宁海桥碑铭 (Carved stele on the restoration of the Ninghai bridge) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:188, No. 166) is preserved by the side of the rebuilt bridge. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 and the Cai 蔡 each has more than 200 people. Other surname groups include the Kang 康, Chen 陈, Lin 林 and Wu 吴. The Cai emigrated from Xiaohu 孝户 of Zhenqian 镇前, while the Wu emigrated from Jiangdong 江东. The Zheng are divided into three branches: Xincuo 新厝, Gucuo 古厝, and Houzhan 后站, of which the Xincuo and Gucuo branches are Christians. 
A029 Qiaodou five village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Jiucha dutang 纠察都堂. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Fushangong 福山宫, Shangyuanshê 上元社: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Guanyinlou 观音楼 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Qinganan 清泉庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:219) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the gods of Fushan gong 福山 宫 and Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 2/2–3, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 is invited to go on procession within the village as well as in villages such as Xiajiangtou 下江头, Xiadai 下埭, Xili 西利, and Yudai 余埭. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are conducted for the hungry ghosts. Marionette plays are performed 
V132 Xiajiangtou 下江头 1. Village settlement Xiajiangtou is managed by the Xiajiangtou Administrative Village 下江头行政村. Xiajiangtou village currently has more than 2500 people, 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖 with 700 people, the Wu 吴 with 600, the Yang 杨 with over 500, the Weng 翁 with over 300, and the Yao 姚 with over 200 people. Other surname include the Chen 陈, Cheng 程, and the Lin 林. According to legend, the Xiao ancestors were stone masons 石匠 who emigrated from Huian 惠安 at the time of the construction of the Ninghai bridge 宁海桥. The Xiao are divided into two branches: Houzhi 后至 and Touqian 头前. There currently exists a common ancestral hall. The ancestral tombs are in the Hugong mountains 壶公山. The Wu are divided into five branches. They used to have an ancestral hall, but it has been transformed into residential houses. The Weng emigrated from Zhenqian 镇前 and they have lived in the village for five generations. The Weng are divided into two branches: Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. Their ancestral hall is in Qingjiang 清江. 3. Village temples 1) Xiajiangjing Baoshangong 霞江境宝山宫: This temple branched off from the Fushangong 福山宫; it was originally built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–66) and rebuilt in Xianfeng 11 (1861). It was renovated in 1946 and in 1987. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 迦罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Nezha taizi 哪吒太子, and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 2) Wenshengshê 文盛社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Xiajiangjing Longxiantan 霞江境隆显坛 is the main temple of the village. Originally built in Qianlong 30 (1765), it was rebuilt twice: in Daoguang 22 (1842), and in 1932. It was later renovated in 1986. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Right altar: Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. Front: Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Baozhou zumiao 宝洲祖庙 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 was rebuilt during the Republican period. Middle: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君, Wuxian dadi 五显 大帝, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Lixianshi 李先师, Kongdaren 孔大人, Wengwudao 翁吾道, Linzhenming 林真明, Wanglingguan 王灵官, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 790 initiates. 6) Xiajiangjing Huiyuntan 霞江境惠云坛 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府 大神, Lufu xiang gong 鲁府相公, Side altars: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Zhengxingtan 正兴坛 is dedicated to Lufu Xianggong 鲁府相公, Side altars: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8) Daxinting 达心亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Zhichengtan 至诚坛 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the Xiao 肖 take the incense burners of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Nezha taizi 哪吒太子 of Baoshangong 宝山宫on a procession. People take turns to be the head host according to their age. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 2/2, a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the Weng 翁, Wu 吴, Yang 杨, and the Yao 姚. Local Shentong 神童 spirit mediums strike themselves with an iron mace 打铁球. The selection of the Shentong 神童 spirit medium is arbitrary and spontaneous: those who beat the drum and chant spells and have a god descend into them become shentong 神童 spirit mediums. These events are organized by the board of directors of Longxian tang 隆显堂 together with the person responsible for each surname group in each village. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette operas are performed. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the Yang 杨. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites These events are organized by the Chen 陈. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/4–5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites These activities are co-organized by Huiyuntan 惠云坛 and Zhengxingtan 正兴坛. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites These events are organized by the Yang 杨. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime rites are conducted at the Mingxiatang 明夏堂. Marionette versions of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three Scripture masters are invited. 
V133 Xiadai 下埭 1. Village settlement Xiadai is managed by the Xiadai Administrative Village 下埭行政村. Xiadai village currently has more than 2300 people. Xiadai is divided into two neighborhoods: Dongzhi 东至 and Xizhi 西至. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhou 周, Lin 林 and the Wu 武. According to the survey data from 1993, there are more than 1500 of the Zhou surname group, making up approximately 30% of the total population, and more than 500 of the Lin surname group, and more than 150 of the Wu surname group. The Zhou emigrated from Qingpu 清浦 and are divided into six branches. They originally had an ancestral hall, but it has been converted into a school. Their genealogy is in Qingpu 清浦. The Lin emigrated from Chizhu 赤柱 of Putian 莆田, and are divided into two branches: Qianlin 前林 and Houlin 后林. The Weng emigrated from Zhanglin 樟林 of Quqiao 渠桥. They have not divided into lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Xiadaijing Jinshangong下埭境金山宫 branched out from the Fushangong 福山宫, and is the main temple for the village. Originally built during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), it was rebuilt both during the Qianlong period (1736–1795) and in 1989. Middle: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Denggong yuanshuai 邓公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiegong yuanshuai 铁公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Linshui furen 淋水夫人, Lindan furen 淋丹夫人, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Xiadaijing Wenxingshushê 下埭境文兴书社, Wenchang shuyuan 文昌 书院 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wuxian faye 五显 法爷, Chensheng faye 陈圣法爷, Huangsheng faye 黄圣法爷, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1205 initiates. 4) Baoshengshê 保盛社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Xinxianshê 新贤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen后土夫人. 6) Longdetan 隆德坛: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huangshêren 黄舍人, Baisheren 白舍人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tongziban 童子班, Daye 大爷. 7) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 is dedicated to Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. 8) Ruicaoan 瑞草庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Zhou 周, Wu 武 and Jin 金 of Dongzhi 东至 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. On 1/13, the Lin 林 of Baoshengshê 宝胜社 of Xizhi 西至 carry their shê-altar incense burners to each of their households to xingdao 行道. Fufan 福饭 (blessed rice) is distributed to each household. On 1/14, the Lin 林 of Xingxian shê 兴贤社 of Xizhi 西至 take their shê incense burners to each of their households to xingdao 行道. Fufan 福饭 (blessed rice) is distributed to each household. On 1/29–2/1, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 are invited to go on procession around the entire village. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited. People take turns to be the host (Fushou) according to their age. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for one day. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two day. These events are organized by miscellaneous surnames group 杂姓. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lin 林 of Xizhi 西至. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the second branch of the Zhou 周. The birthday celebration of Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fifth branch of the Zhou 周. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for one day. 7/23: 8/12: 9/20: 10/29: 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the fourth branch of the Zhou 周. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wenxing shushê 文兴书社. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinxianshê 新贤社. Opera is performed for two days. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 at Ruichao’an 瑞草庵. Marionette plays are performed. The birthday celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lin 林 of Xizhiwei 西至尾. 
V134 Xili 西利 1. Village settlement Xili is managed by the Xili Administrative Village 西利行政村. Xili village has approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 make up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Tang 唐 and the Dai 戴. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾, and are divided into six lineage branches. Currently, only the first, second, fourth and sixth branch exists. The sixth branch makes up 80% of the Li population, and has two ancestral halls. The Li genealogy is in Yangwei 洋尾. Each year, four people take turns according to age to be the Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Xilijing Xianxinggong 西利境显兴宫 was taken apart in 1958 for the smelting of steel and metal, but it has been rebuilt recently. Middle altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qiwei muhua niangma 七位木花娘妈. On the side altars: Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯 (Zhubajie 猪八戒), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xilijing Yongqingshê 西利境永庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯, Yinglie shengwang 英烈 圣王. 3) Sanyi tang 三一堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Side altars: Jindaren 金大人, Kongdaren 孔大人. 4) Xilai chansi 西来禅寺: Originally subsidiary to Guanghuasi 广化寺, it has been rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Side altars: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Dizangwang 地藏王, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the gods of Yongqing shê 永庆社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 of Hushan mountain 壶公山 to invite the incense 请香 of the Jade Emperor back to their village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Opera is performed for two days. 4/23: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Marionette plays are performed. 5/16: Villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 of Hushan mountain 壶公山 to invite the incense 请香 of the Jade Emperor back to their village. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Qiwei muhua shengmu 七位木花圣母. Each household prepares flowers and burns incense. Opera is performed for two days. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. 
V135 Yudai 余埭 1. Village settlement Yudai is part of the Xili Administrative Village 西利 行政村. The entire village currently has more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups The Yu 余 make up more than 85% of the total population. Other surnames include the Lin 林 and the Li 李. The Yu are divided into the head branch 头房, the second branch 二房 and the third branch 三房. There currently exists an ancestral hall and an ancestral cuo 祖厝 (ancestral house). Their ancestral tombs are near the Baiyunguan 白云观 on Hugong mountain 壶公山. 3. Village temples 1) Jingjiangjing Yongshougong 鲸江境永受宫, Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 is dedicated to Xietian shangdi 协天上帝, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓. Side altars: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhangshun shenghou 张顺圣侯, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Jingjiangjing Yinglingmiao 鲸江境英灵庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 3) Jingjiangjing Haininggong 鲸江境海宁宫 was built in 1937 and is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳. 4) Changmingsi 长明寺 is dedicated to Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to xingdao 行道 in every household. On 1/23, Weiwan 尾晚 (the last night) of Yuanxiao 元宵 is celebrated. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession around the village. Lanterns goes on procession around the village territory, and one Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/23: the birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A030 Lindun sancun (Lindun three village ritual alliance) 林墩 三村 The three village ritual alliance of Lindun is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前 大沟. This area was part of the Lindunpu 林墩铺 and the Huxi Dongtingpu 浒西东亭铺, both of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, this area had the village of Lindun 林墩. In the Qing, the villages of Jiangxi 江西 and Longhua 龙华 separated off. The Wenxinggong 文兴宫 temple, located in Lindun 林墩 village, is the main temple of the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and the secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou Lindun three village ritual alliance xingjun 北斗星君 and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Each year in the second half of the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the gods of the Wenxinggong are taken on a procession to the three villages of the alliance. This area was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming. The three lineages of the Fang 方, Hong 洪 and Chen 陈 together produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eleven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), an Investigating Censor 监察御史 set up a Qunlong (Grouped Dragons) 群龙牌坊 memorial archway for the Fang lineage 方. In Chenghua 22 (1486) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway for Ding Yong 丁镛. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, Lindun 林墩 was part of the black banner alliance, while Jiangxi 江西 and Longhua 龙华 were part of the white banner alliance. It is said that Lindun was originally part of the white banner alliance, but because of a feud with Jiangxi village, it joined in with the three village ritual alliance of Donghua 东华 for support, and so entered the black banner alliance. 
V136 Lindun 林墩 1. Village settlement Lindun is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村. Lindun village currently has more than 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Fang 方, making up 20% of the entire population. Other surnames include the Wang 王, Hong 洪, Cai 蔡, Chen 陈 and Huang 黄. It is said that the village was originally occupied by the Lin 林. However, when asked for a divine dream 仙梦, the Lin dreamed that they were oppressed by the Fang. Thus the Lin moved to Fuzhou 福州. The Fang are divided into four branches. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it was destroyed. 3. Village temples 1) Linpu shengjing Wenxinggong 林埔胜境文兴宫 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Side altars: Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 2) Changshoushê 长寿社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lizhangzhe 李长者. 3) Gonghuan 拱壶庵 is dedicated to Miaodao Ciji zhenjun 妙道慈济真君. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Magong shengjun 马公圣君, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣. 4) Guanyingge 观音阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars: Shancai 善才, Longnü 龙女, Milefo 弥勒佛. 5) Zongkongci 宗孔祠, Nantang Qigongci 南塘戚公祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuozhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the Fang 方 and the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 each separately prepare offerings to pray for good fortune at the Wenxinggong 文兴宫 and at the Changshoushê 长寿社. On 1/16, the Wang 王 prepares offerings to worship at the Wenxinggong 文兴宫 and the Changshoushê 长寿社. In the second half of the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 ritual is held for the entire village. Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Magong shengjun 马公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 are invited to go on procession for two days. Three Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to conduct rituals. Each year, one person is selected by divination to be the head host (Fushou 福首). Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Magong shengju 马公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/3: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are conducted at the Zongkongci 宗孔祠. Three in one Scripture masters 经师 conduct the service 超度. Marionette operas are performed. Offerings are prepared by the every household. 各户备 供品. Lindun used to be part of the white banner alliance. The people of Jiangdong 江东 were caught stealing beans from Lindun, and they had to pay for the performance of operas in Lindun as part of their punishment. The Jiangdong (white banner) people retaliated by attacking Lindun. Lindun resisted their attack, and sought help from Donghua 东华 (black banner). Thus, Lindun became part of the black banner alliance. 
V137 Jiangxi 江西 1. Village settlement Jiangxi is part of the Jiangdong Administrative Village 江东行政村. Jiangxi village currently has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴, Wang 王, Li 李, and Huang 黄. The Wu in the village are the Wu of Wujiao 梧郊吴, and they emigrated from Wujiao 梧郊 of Hanjiang 涵江. There are currently more than 100 people, divided into two branches. The Wang came from Jiangxi 江西, the Li came from Duotou 哆头, and the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞. 3. Village temples 1) Huxijing Qingyunmiao 浒西境青云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Baidaren 白大人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Xinyishê 新义社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Xinfuci 新福祠 is also known as Zhiyitang 植义堂. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun jiangjun 白牙将军 are invited to go on a procession around the village. The temple distributes cookies to the community (Fendingbing 分丁饼), and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 
V138 Longhua 龙华 1. Village settlement Longhua is also called Longpi 龙皮 or Longguan 龙官. Longhua is part of the Qiaodou Administrative Village 桥兜行政村. Longhua village currently has more than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 makes up 60% of the village population. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Huang 黄, Fang 方 and Zheng 郑. The Lin are divided into Donglin 东林 and Xilin 西林 lineage branches. Each branch had their own ancestral hall, but these no longer exist. Their ancestral tombs are in the Hugong mountains 壶公山. It is said that in the past, there were people who preached the Dao 讲道 in the village (the Longhua religion 龙华教), and that when it rained, they would take a walk around Chengzhong 埕中, and there would be no raindrops in the circle where they had walked. Thus the villagers are very pious Buddhists and Daoists, and the place is known as “Ergong sancitang shibacuo ershisanfotang” (literally meaning two temples, three ancestral halls, eighteen old homes, and twentythree Buddhist halls, signifying that there are a lot of religious buildings) 二宫三祠堂十八厝二十三佛堂. The entire village has always been vegetarian, and no one raises pigs or chicken. There are several Buddhist nunneries and retreats in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Lianjiangjing Xianyingmiao 连江境显应庙: Originally built in the Song Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: imperially granted 敕封 (title) Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯. Side altars: Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Chengong taifu 陈公太府, Zhuogong taibao 卓公太保, Yanggong yuanshuai 杨公元帅. 2) Xinxingshê 新兴社 was built recently, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhaode shengfei 昭德圣妃. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Panggong shenghou 庞公 圣侯 is carried on a procession around the village. In the morning of the 15th, the roadways are sealed against demonic influences. The gods are escorted back to the temple. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 请道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/17: The birthday celebration of Panggong shenghou 庞公圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 2/28: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 7/17: The birthday celebration of Zhuogong taibao 卓公太保. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. 
A031 Jiangdong shiershê (Jiangdong twelve shê ritual alliance) 江东十二社 
V139 Jiangdong 江东 1. Village settlement Jiangdong, also known as Gangdong 巷东 and Pukou 浦口, is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前大沟. This area was part of the Houjiangpu 垕江铺 (police/defense unit) of Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton. According to the villagers’ legends, Jiangdong village was originally a tidal flat, and the place was called Pukou 浦口 (river mouth). In the past, the main livelihood of the Jiangdong people was fishing, so their boats are all moored by the sea side, thus the place was also called Wanchuanqian (meaning ten thousand boats in the front) 万船前. The entire village currently has more than 6000 people, and they are divided into four neighborhoods: Dongza 东杂, Xiza 西杂, Zhongjing 中境, and Yijing 义境. All of these areas are managed by the Jiangdong Administrative Village 江东行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into twelve shê ritual associations on the basis of different surnames. The Pukougong 浦口宫 of Jiangdong is the main overall temple of the twelve shê ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the shê alliances of Jiangdong were all part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up more than 50% of the overall village population, while the Qi 祁 make up approximately 30%. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, Jiang 江, Chen 陈, and Lin 林. The Wu in the village are divided into five branches: Huanlang 环浪, Xiaoyou 孝友, Xiaoli 小立, Sanshan 三山, and Dongjiao 东角. Each branch has a different origin and distinct ancestral halls. Their main ancestral hall is in Huangshi 黄石. The Huanlang branch of the Wu 环浪吴 makes up approximately 30% of the Wu, and they are from Huangshi, and belong to the Tuntian Wu 屯田吴. There branch has an ancestral hall, which serves as the 老人会 Old Persons Association of the neighborhood. The Qi emigrated from Taiyuan city 太原 in Shanxi 山西 province to Putian. Their ancestral tombs are in Huating 华亭. The Qi of the village are divided into four branches: Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Gounan 沟南, and Goubei 沟北. 3. Village temples 1) Fude dongshê 福德东社: Main god: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Houjiangjing Pukougong 垕江境浦口宫 is divided into Yongxing zhongshê 永兴中社 (the Wu 吴), Yongxing qianshê 永兴前社 (the Chen 陈), Yongxing houshê 永兴后社 (the Wu 吴), Yongxing yishê 永兴义社 (the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈), Xinxing yishê 信兴义社 (the Wu 吴), Fude Jiangdong twelve shê ritual alliance dongshê 福德东社 (the Qi 祁), Fude xishê 福德西社 (the Lin 林), Huangxing sishê 黄兴祀社 (the Huang 黄), Taipingshê 太平社 (the Zhu 朱), Dongli jiahe 东里家社 (the Zheng 郑), Dongchun shangshê 东春上社 (miscellaneous surnames 杂姓), Xinan shoushê 新安寿社 (miscellaneous surnames 杂姓). There are 12 shê ritual associations in total. Apparently, there used to also be a Heshangshê “和尚社” (Buddhist monk ritual association), but now it no longer exists. Middle altar: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Jiang meifei 江梅妃, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jiang guojiu 江国舅, Wu zhenren 吴真人. Right altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Guandi shengjun 关帝圣君. Jiang Meifei is a figure of local Putian legend who is said to have been summoned to the court during the Tang due to her great beauty. The temple preserves several stelae, including: 1) Jiaqing 16 (1811) 重修浦口宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:284, No. 248); 2) three stelae composed in Jiaqing 18 (1813) entitled 重修浦口宫题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:285–289, No. 249, 250, 251); 3) Guangxu 3 (1877) 重修浦口宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:333, No. 297); and 4) three inscriptions entitled 重修浦口宫题捐芳 名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the restoration of the Pukou Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:334–337, No. 298, 299, 300) 3) Feiyunmiao 飞云庙 belongs to Zhongjing 中境 and Xiza 西杂 neighborhoods. Originally built prior to the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620), it was renovated during the Qing Jiaqing period (1796–1820). The temple is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Right: Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. This temple preserves a stele from Jiaqing 15 (1810) entitled 飞云庙捐置祀业碑 (Stele on contributions leading to the establishment of a fund for sacrifices at the Flying Cloud Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 275, No. 240). 4) Shenqingmiao 神庆庙 belongs to Dongza 东杂 and Yijing 义境 neighborhoods. The main god is Sima shengwang司马圣王. 5) Huluyan 葫芦岩 belongs to Huanlang 环浪 neighborhood. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 6) Dongchen xunshê 东春巡社 belongs to Dongza 东杂 neighborhood. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Mingxiatang 明霞堂 (Wanxiangci 万像祠) belongs to Xiza 西杂 neighborhood, and is the main temple for the Three in One religion 三一教 of Jiangdong village. The temple was rebuilt in 1986. In the main hall on the middle altar is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 (two statues). Right: Hufa longtian 护法龙天 (two statues). The left hall is dedicated to Qianshou Guanyin 千手观音. Front: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. The right hall is dedicated to Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 claims that there are 480 initiates. 8) Dongshangci 东上祠 belongs to Yijing 义境 neighborhood, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Side altars: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Hufa longtou 护法龙头, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. 9) Zhongshangci 中上祠 belongs to Huanlang 环浪 neighborhood, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Sanyidong 三一洞 is dedicated to Jin daren 金大人. Left: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Right: Li daye 李大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷. 11) Jixinge 即心阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝, Jintong 金童, Yunü 玉女. 12) Feiyanfu 飞燕府 is dedicated to the Wuwei daren 五位大人. These are the Xinghua Prefectural Commanding General Kong Zhouxi 兴化总兵孔 兆熙, who died while fighting pirates in Ming Jiajing 41 (1562), and his four generals. Secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 13) Zhongtianci 中天祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 claims that there are 820 initiates. 14) Qiaotouci 桥头祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 claims that there are 520 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, each shê displays offerings of fruit in the Pukougong 浦口宫 temple. Opera is performed right after the offering. On 1/7, Jiangguojiu 江国舅, Jiang Meifei 江梅妃, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qiansiniang 钱四娘 are carried in a procession around the entire village. Every time that Zhongjing 中境 is the host (once every 6–7 years), the main god, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, is taken on a procession around the entire village. On 1/10–12 each shê requests the incense burners from Pukougong 浦口宫 temple, and takes them on a procession within their own territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7: The birthday celebration of Jiang guojiu 江国舅. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 2/1: The birthday celebration of the Wuwei daren 五位大人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar second month, a procession of the Wuwei daren is held. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera xis performed in Xiza 西杂 and Zhongjing 中境 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/16: The birthday celebration of Jiang Meifei 江梅妃. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed in Huanlang 环浪 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed in Dongza 东杂 and Yijing 义境 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed in Dongza 东杂 for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/16: Another celebration of Jiang Meifei 江梅妃. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/29:The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites are held. Three Sanyijiao 三一教 Scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct the rituals. Marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V140 Haibin 海滨 1. Village settlement Haibin is located alongside the coastal tidal sea dikes on the Mulan 木兰 river. During the early Qing the village was “beyond the borders 界外”, and was forcibly evacuated. Haibin was part of the Donghuapu 东华铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. Haibin village took shape in the Qing dynasty. The entire village currently has more than 3000 people, and is divided into five settlement clusters: Touqian 头前, Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Dacuoli 大厝里 and Zhongcuo 中厝, all of which are under the management of the Haibin Administrative Village 海滨 行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up basically according to the settlement clusters into five jia ritual associations. Each year these ritual associations select twenty-four Fushou 福首 to organize the ritual activities of the year. Dongzhi 东至 and Xizhi 西至 each nominate six Fushou, while Haibin five jia ritual alliance the other three jia each nominate four people each. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five jia alliance of Haibin was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups Huang 黄 is the only surname. It is said that the village originally had some minor surnames, but they all changed their surnames to the Huang surname in recent years. According to the “Huang genealogy of Haibin” 海滨黄氏族谱, the Huang migrated to Putian 莆田 during the Tang Dynasty. Originally, they mainly settled in Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江. They later migrated to Haibin 海滨, and have been living there for approximately twenty generations. The Huang are divided into five branches: Touqian 头前, Dongzhi 东至, Xizhi 西至, Dacuoli 大厝里, and Zhongcuo 中厝 of which Dongzhi and Xizhi together make up approximately 50% of the population, while the Zhongcuo branch makes up 19%, the Dacuoli 大厝里 branch 21%, and the Touqiancuo 头前厝 branch 10%. There is a main ancestral hall, which is now the village committee 村委会 headquarters. Each branch has their own zucuo (ancestral house) 祖厝, where the corpses of the recently deceased are temporarily placed. They function as mortuaries (Taipingjian) 太平间 until the deceased can be buried. 3. Village temples 1) Jingjiangjing Chunqiu yishê 京江境春秋义社 is the main temple for Haibin 海滨. Originally belonged to the Hong 洪, it is now owned by the Huang 黄. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Banshan daxian 半山大仙, Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 2) Xingxun zushê 兴巡祖庙 is the main temple of Haibin Wujia: Main gods: Jiang daren 江大人, Bai daren 白大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Zhu daren 朱大人, Tian daren 田大人. Secondary gods: Duchayuan yushi 都察院御史, Zhongjun 中军, Baban 八班. 3) Shanbentang 善本堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. Front secondary god: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Xuzhongjun 许中军 and Lizhongjun 李中军. 4) Xingxunmiao 兴巡庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Jiang daren 江大人, Bai daren 白大人, Yang daren 杨大人, Zhu daren 朱大人, Tian daren 田大人. 5) Dongzhenci 东镇祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Xianqingsi 仙庆寺, Qingshantang 庆善堂: Rebuilt in 1988, the temple is co-owned by Haibin 海滨, Jiangdong 江东, Donghua 东华, Donghua 东甲, and Zhelang 遮浪. Front hall: Main gods: Shijia wenfo 释加文佛, Sanjiuku pusa 三救苦菩萨. Secondary gods: Left: Weituo 韦陀. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. Front right: Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉. Rear hall (Qingshantang 庆善堂): Main god: Milefo 弥勒佛. Secondary gods: Left: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenshu pusa 文殊菩萨, Puxian pusa 普贤菩萨. Right: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. Right side hall: Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 7) Longdetang 隆德堂 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8) Jufumiao 聚福庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 2006 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Dongzhi 东至 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/11–12, Xizhi 西至 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/15, Zhongcuo 中厝 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/20, Dacuoli 大厝里 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On 1/24, Touqian 头前 takes Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession within its territory. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Villagers go on pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong mountain 壶公山 to request the god’s incense. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Wuwei daren 五位大人. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Xu zhongjun 许中军 and Li zhongjun 李中军. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are performed for the hungry ghosts. Marionette plays are performed. 
A033 Zhelang sanjia (Zhelang three jia ritual alliance) 遮浪三甲 
V141 Zhelang 遮浪 1. Village settlement Zhelang is located alongside the tidal sea dikes of the Mulan 木兰 river mouth. The area was part of the Dongjiaopu 东角铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. During the early Qing the village was “beyond the borders” 界外, and the village was forcibly evacuated. The village was already settled in the Ming. The village currently has more than 4000 residents, who live in three settlement clusters: Chencuo 陈厝, Chengcuo 程厝, and Huangcuo 黄厝, all of which are managed by the Zhelang Administrative Village 遮浪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into three jia ritual associations on the basis of lineage and settlement. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Cheng 程 and Huang 黄. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 of Chengjiao 城郊, while the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江, and the Cheng came from Chengkou 程口 of Beigao 北高 (of the same ancestry as the Cheng of Donghua 东华程). The Cheng lineage was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming. They produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). Jifumiao 集福庙 of Chencuo 陈厝 is the main temple for the three jia ritual associations. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three jia alliances of Zhelang were all part of the black banner alliance. 3. Village temples 1) Zhujiangjing Jifumiao 珠江境集福庙, Xinanshê 新安社 (also known as the Lüxianyan 吕仙岩) is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Sugong ershi 苏公二使, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Ruizhu shuyuan 蕊珠书院, Xinan shangshê 新安上社 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 3) Tongyingmiao 通应庙 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Li zhangzhe 李长者, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Niushan dawang 牛山大王, Zhu dawang 猪大王. Zhelang three jia ritual alliance 4) Xianyingdian 显应殿 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. Main god: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods: Yide xianfei 懿德仙妃 and Siye 四爷. 5) Mingzhutang 明珠堂 is located in Huangcuo 黄厝. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai田公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮 尊天, Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Sanfeng zhenren 三 丰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xingru Lu xiansheng 性如卢先生. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 635 initiates. 6) Xinan xinshê 新安新社 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7) Xian dongshê 新安东社 is located in Chengcuo 程厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Dexinci 德馨祠 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Qingyuantang 清源堂 is located outside the village. There is a Sanguan baodian 三官宝殿 Buddhist Three Treasures Hall inside the temple. This temple originally belonged to the Guanmenjiao 关门教 (closed-door religious movement). Main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 10) Jiqingtang 积庆堂 is located in Chencuo 陈厝 and dedicated to Sixiongdi 四兄弟. 11) Baoyuantang 保元堂 is located in Chencuo 陈厝. The temple was built in 1877. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 and Luwenhui 卢文辉. 12) Dexinci 德馨祠 is located in Chencuo 陈厝 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Zhuihuixu 朱慧虚 and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 13) Gongdeci 功德祠: This temple preserves a stele composed by Cheng Gongchen 程拱辰 in Wanli 30 (1602) entitled 修东角遮浪石隄记 (Record of the restoration of the dike from Dongjia to Zhelang). (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:192, No. 168). 14) Mingxintang 明馨堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB: 13 claims that there are about 1170 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Chengcuo 程厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/13–14, Chencuo 陈厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/15–16, Huangcuo 黄厝 invites the incense burners of the shê altar to visit each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao) and go on a procession around its territory. In the evening palm sedan chairs of the gods are carried over bonfires. On 1/17, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the three jia ritual associations. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 are invited to go on procession around the entire territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/18: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 8/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinan shangshê 新安上社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Xinan dongshê 新安东社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Opera is performed. 11/2: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/3: The Xiayuan Pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are carried out at the Mingzhutang 明珠堂. Marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. 
A034 Donghua sancun (Donghua three village ritual alliance) 东华 三村 The three village alliance of Donghua is located along the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system leading into the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门 前大沟. During the early Qing the village was placed beyond the borders 界外, and the village was evacuated. This area was part of the Donghuapu 东华铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, Donghua village was already settled. In the Qing, Peiwei 沛尾 village separated off. Currently there are over 10, 000 people in the area, which is divided into Huadi 华堤, Huazhong 华中, and Huadong 华东行政村 Administrative Villages. Apart from this, Donghu 东湖, a natural village subsidiary to Huazhong 华中, also 
A034 Donghua three village ritual alliance participates in the ritual activities of the three village ritual alliance of Donghua. Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 temple, located in Huazhong village, is the main temple for the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Each year on lunar 2/3 the Toufu rites are celebrated, and the god is taken on a procession to all three villages of the alliance. This area was famous for its examination graduates in the Ming, and the seven lineages of the region, the Yu 余, Guo 郭, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Wu 吴, Chen 陈 and You 游 together produced six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twenty Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway for Yu Kang 余康. In the Ming Chenghua period (1465–1487) the Supervisory Education-intendant Censor 提学佥事 set up a Di’e lianhui 棣 萼联辉牌坊 memorial archway in honor of two brothers of the Lin lineage 林氏兄弟. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three villages of the Donghua alliance were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V142 Huadi 华堤 1. Village settlement Huadi village is managed by the Huadi Administrative Village 华堤行政村. Huadi village was originally divided into Huadi 华堤 and Weicuo 尾厝, but now the two have combined, becoming a natural village under the name of Huadi. The entire village has approximately 2700 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Xie 谢, Zheng 郑 and Lin 林. The Wu make up approximately 50% of the population while the Chen make up approximately 30%. The Wu first emigrated from Daomei 道美 of Huangshi 黄石 to Jiangdong 江东, then one of the households moved to Huadi and gradually developed the region. The Wu are divided into the Tianwei 田尾 branch and the Weicuo 尾厝 branch. There is a common ancestral hall called Guangyuci 光裕祠, and it is used during the Yuanxiao festivals. Their genealogy is in Huangshi while their ancestral tombs are near the Huangshi Number 1 high school 黄石一中. The Chen emigrated from Beigao 北高, and divided into two branches, the Yigu 一谷 and Ergu 二谷. The Zheng have just over 100 people, and they emigrated from the area near Guanghuasi 广化寺 during the Ming Tianqi period (1621–1627). 3. Village temples 1) Huajiangjing Xingtaiyan 华江境兴泰岩 is the main temple for Huadi. Originally built during the Ming Dynasty, it was rebuilt both during the Qing Guangxu period (1875–1908) and in 1984. Middle: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left: Bajiang 八将, Zaobo 皂伯, Dongdaye 东大爷. Right: Bajiang 八将, Zaobo 皂伯, Xidaye 西大爷. Left side hall: Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Zhenwudian 真武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Side altars: Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Denglong shushê 登龙书社 belongs to the Wu 吴. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Fuyoushê 福佑社 belongs to the Chen 陈. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wudiye 五帝爷, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5) Yingyoushê 英佑社 belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Zheng 郑. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Side altars: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. 6) Dengmingshê 灯明社 belongs to the Xie 谢. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7) Dechengfu 德成府 belongs to the Wu of Tianwei 田尾. Middle: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Side altars: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Daye 大爷. 8) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built in 2002, and belongs to Zhoushejia 周社甲. Middle: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Mingxintang 明心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 11) Sanshengci 三圣祠 was first built during the Ming Tianqi period (1621– 27), and was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (The Huang of Huazhong 华中, the Zheng of Huadi 华堤, and the Lin 林 and the Zhang 张 of Huadi 华堤 each sculpted their own set of statues of these gods). Left: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Right: Huilie shenghou 慧烈圣侯 (supported by the Huang of Huazhong 华中). Front: Guangfu furen 广福夫人, Erwei jinren 二位金人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Nezha taizi 哪吒太子, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 12) Fuxitang 浮溪堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. Right: Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. 13) Yuhuaci 玉华祠 belongs to the Wu 吴 of Tianwei 田尾. Middle: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝. 14) Tianhua chansi 天华禅寺 was rebuilt in 1991. Middle: Sanzhenfo 三真佛. Side altars: Milefo 弥勒佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝, 18 Luohan 十八罗汉. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the Wu 吴 take Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 on a procession within their territory. On 1/15, the Xie 谢 of Dengmingshê, the Chen 陈 of Xinanshê 新安社 and the Chen, Lin, Li, and Zheng of Fuxingshê all go on a procession within their territory. On 1/16, the Chen take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 on a procession within their territory. On 1/21, on the final evening of the Yuanxiao ritual (weiwan Yuanxiao 尾晚元宵), Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 are taken on a procession around the village. Three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, as well as the Wuhuang dadi 五皇 大帝 of the Chongshengci 崇圣祠 of Huazhong 华中 village are all taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 4/28: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuyoushê. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Huilie shenghou 慧烈圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dengmingshê. Marionette plays are performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 8/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Denglong fenshê 登龙分社. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingyoushê 英佑社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 10/29: Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度. Sanyijiao 三一教 Scripture masters are invited to perform rites. 
V143 Huazhong 华中 1. Village settlement Huazhong is managed by the Huazhong Administrative village 华中行政村. Huazhong was originally divided into Zhongjing 中境, Zhongle 中乐, Donghu 东湖, Baishiyang 白石洋, Jingputou 井埔头 and Wangfang 汪方. All six settlements have merged together over time, creating one continuous natural village. The entire village currently has more than 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The Yu 余 make up 50%, while the Huang 黄 make up approximately 15% of the entire village population. Other surnames include the Guo 郭, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Ou 欧, Xu 许, Li 李, and the Cheng 程. The Yu are divided into the east Yu and the west Yu. The east Yu emigrated from Duwei 度尾 of Xianyou 仙游, and are now divided into two branches. They have a Yu ancestral hall 余氏祠堂, where they worship their ancestors. Opera is performed for two days. The west Yu came from Chengkou 程口 of Beigao 北高, and are divided into three branches. They have a Qianxianci 佥宪祠 and a Shiqing jiamiao 世卿家庙. They also worship their ancestors in their ancestral hall during Yuanxiao. Opera is performed for two days. Their ancestral tombs are currently in Chengkou 呈口. Each year, each branch sends representatives to Chengkou to worship their ancestors. The Huang have approximately 700 people. They emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞, and are mainly distributed in Zhongjing 中境. The Huang are divided into five branches. The Yudeci Huang lineage ancestal hall 黄氏裕德祠, which was originally built in Qing Jiaqing 4 (1799), is still used for ancestal worship. The lineage genealogy is kept in Huangxia. 3. Village temples 1) Huajiangjing Xigui zushê 华江境袭桂祖社 was originally the ancestral shê (zushe) 祖社 of Haibin 海滨, Zhelang 遮浪, Dongjia 东甲 and Sanhua 三华. Now it is co-owned by the east Yu 东余, west Yu 西余, the Wu 吴, Guo 郭, Ou 欧 and the Wang 王 of the village. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beima shenghou 白马圣侯. Right altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Guangfu furen 广福夫人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 is the main temple for the three village alliance of Donghua 东华. The temple was rebuilt in 1988. Middle: Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Left: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dongfu xiansheng 东阜 先生. Right: Wanggong daren 王公大人. Front left: Dong bajiang 东八将, Daye 大爷. Front right: Xi bajiang 西八将, Daye 大爷. Left side lower hall: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Qingyundong 清云洞: Middle altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Liu daye 柳大爷, Zhong junfu 中军府, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuotong 风火童. 4) Tianhougong 天后宫 was rebuilt in recent years. Middle: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Side altars: Qianliyan 千里眼, Wanlier 万里耳. 5) Sanshengci 三圣祠: Built in Ming Tianqi 2 (1458), this temple belongs to the Huang 黄, the Zheng 郑, and the Lin 林. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Hui lieshenghou 惠烈 圣侯, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huang sheren 黄舍人, Bai sheren 白舍人, Lufu youer 鲁府幼儿. 6) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Xinanshê 新安社: This temple was originally built during the late Ming Dynasty, and was rebuilt both in 1947 and in 2001. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. Right altar: Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Front altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, Zhengyi tianshi 正一天师, Sanwei zhenren 三位真人, Sanwei xingjun 三位星君, Sanwei jiangjun 三位将军, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎 将军. 7) Dazuntang 达尊堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Canxingting 参性亭 was rebuilt in 1989. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士, Secondary gods: (left) Xietian dadi 协天大帝. (right ) Jialan pusa 伽蓝 菩萨. 9) Dongshengci 东升祠 was built in 1989. Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. Secondary gods: Left altar: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Right altar: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. Right hall dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 10) Minglintang 明林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Guo 郭 take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. On 1/9, the west Yu 余 take Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/10, the Ou and the Xu take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. On 1/11, the Cheng take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession around their territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/12, the Huang take Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯 and Shuntian shengmu to go on procession within the territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/14, the east Yu 东余 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 and the Lin 林 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed for two days. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, as well as the Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 of the Chongshengci 崇圣祠 temple of Huazhong 华中 are taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 4/15: The birthday celebration of Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公. Opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days by the three village alliance of Donghua. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for almost a month, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shuangshengci 双圣祠. Opera is performed for two days. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Wanggong daren 王公大人. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by one to three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师. Marionette plays of the Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. 
V144 Huadong 华东 1. Village settlement Huadong is managed by the Huadong Administrative Village 华东行政村. Huadong was originally divided into villages such as Huadong 华东, Yangqiaotou 杨桥头, and Hengtouqiu 横头丘, but now they are all linked together into a single natural village. The entire village currently has more than 4000 people, 2. Surname groups The Chen make up 90% of the village population. Other surname groups include the Huang 黄 and the Wu 吴. The Chen came from Shanqian 山前 of Beigao 北高, and are divided into three branches: Touqian 头前, Shuxia 树下, and Houcuo 后厝. They also have a lineage genealogy 族谱. The Huang currently have an ancestral hall, but the most of the people of the surname group have migrated to Huangshi 黄石. Six people are selected to be Fushou 福首 each year by divination. 3. Village temples 1) Panshigong 磐石宫, Panshuishê 泮水社 is the main temple for the village. The temple was rebuilt in 1982. Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Right altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chengong taishi 陈公太师. 2) Hongjingmiao 弘靖庙: Originally built right after the founding of the PRC, this temple was renovated in 1985. Middle: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Left altar: Liu daye 柳大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, Chen daye 陈大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄二爷. Right altar: Xu daye 徐大爷, Zhu daye 朱大爷, Li daye 李大爷, Wu daye 吴大爷, Xu guniang 徐姑娘, Siye 四爷. 3) Guanyinting 观音亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Side altars: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Huajiang shuyuan 华江书院 was originally co-owned by Donghua 东华, Zhelang 遮浪, and Haibin 海滨 villages. Middle: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Side altars: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer mamu 鹿儿马母. 5) Yuhuangdian 玉皇殿 was rebuilt in 1990. Middle: Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊. Left: Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. Right: Dafa tianshi 大法天师, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Wu yuanshuai 吴元帅, Xin yuanshuai 辛元帅, Dianmu 电母. East side: Daye 大爷. West side: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 6) Tongmingdian 通明殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Niushan dawang 牛山 大王, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. 8) Deyuanmiao 德源庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Dongzhenci 东镇祠 was built in Ming Jiajing 21 (1542). The back hall is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝. Right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chensheng hufa 陈圣护法. Left side: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Right side: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 10) Mingyangtang 明扬堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is the secondary god. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Chengong taishi 陈公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are taken on a procession around the three village alliance of Donghua. Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 descends to possess Shentong 神童 (spirit mediums). Three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited to conduct rites. On 2/3, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and the Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 of Chongshenci 崇圣祠 of Huazhong village are invited to go on procession within the three village alliance of Donghua. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. One ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 5/6: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 6/17: 7/7: 7/16: 7/17: 7/23: 8/6: 8/21: 8/23: 8/8: 9/19: 10/15: 10/23: 10/29: 12/24: The birthday celebration of Niushan dawang 牛山大王. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. One ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Dafa tianshi 大法天师. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Between one to three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王. Opera is performed for two days. The birthday celebration of Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The birthday celebration of Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. Between one and three Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. Universal Deliverance rites of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are performed at the Dongzhenci东镇祠. Mulian opera (with marionettes) 目莲戏 is performed for one day. Three to seven Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime rites 下元普度 are performed at the Panshigong磐石宫. Mulian opera (with marionettes) 目莲戏 is performed for one day. Three to seven Sanyijiao Scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited. The birthday celebration of Chengong taishi 陈公太师. Opera is performed for two days. One Daoist ritual master is invited to chant the scriptures. 
A035 Jingpu wushê (Jingpu five shê ritual alliance) 井埔五社 The five shê alliance of Jingpu is located in between the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system in front of the Lindun sluice-gate 林墩斗门前 大沟 and the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟. These villages were part of the Zhupu Tashanpu 珠埔塔山铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, this area already had the four villages of Jingpu 井埔, Houzhu 后洙, Tashan 塔山 and Longxiang 龙巷. In the Qing, the villages of Taihu 太湖 and Puding 铺顶 separated off. Currently the area has over 3000 people, all of whom are under the administration of the Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to lineage and settlements into five shê ritual associations. The Xianjimiao 显济庙 temple, located in Jingpu 井埔村 village, is the main temple for the five shê ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Weiling Jiayouhou 威灵嘉佑侯. Every twelve years, the god is taken on a procession to the five shê of the alliance, and on to the streets and temples of Huangshi 黄石 town. These events are organized by a temple management committee made up of representatives from each of the five shê ritual associations. In this area, the Zhu 朱, Wu 吴, Huang 黄, and Zhuo 卓 lineages were prominent lineages known for their examination graduates. In the Ming, the Zhu lineage 朱 produced six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan graduates) and twenty-four Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Wu lineage was a close second, with six Jinshi and twenty-three Juren. The Huang lineage produced five Jinshi and fifteen Juren, and the Zhuo lineage produced one Jinshi and four Juren. In Ming Tianshun 1 (1457) a Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Liwei jingkui 礼闱经魁牌坊 memorial archway for the Zhuo lineage 卓. In Ming Hongzhi 14 (1501) the Assistant Surveillance Commissioner 按察司佥事 set up a Jinbang lianfang 金榜联芳牌坊 memorial archway for the Wu lineage 吴. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499) the Surveillance Vice Commissioner 按察司副 set up a Shaoqing 少卿牌坊 memorial archway for the Wu lineage 吴. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five shê alliance of Jinpu all were part of the red banner alliance. 
V145 Jingpu 井埔 1. Village settlement Jingpu is part of the Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. Jinghou village currently has more than 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱, Cheng 程 and Li 李. According to the survey data from 1993, the Zhu surname group makes up two thirds of the population of the entire village. Apart from this, Jingpu five shê ritual alliance there are some forty Cheng households, over thirty Li households, more than ten Lin 林 household, six Jin 靳 households, four Wu 吴 households, and four Chen 陈 households. The Zhu claim to have fled from Gushi 固始 county in Guangzhou 光州 prefecture of Henan province 河南 to Gutian county 古田县 of Fujian province during the Huangchao 黄巢 rebellion in the late Tang dynasty. The Zhu claim that their ancestor was appointed District Magistrate 县令 of Gutian, and later his descendants migrated and settled in the Shuinan ritual territory 水南境 of Putian 莆田. Currently, the Zhu preserve a lineage genealogy 族谱, a lineage ancestral hall 祠堂 and a tombstone of the deceased mother of the county magistrate of Gutian (née Xiao) 唐古田令朱公妣敕封恭人萧氏墓. 3. Village temples 1) Yujingjing Antai xingshê 玉井境安泰兴社 was rebuilt in 1985. Zhongzuo shenzhang 中座神帐: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Left: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Xianji shushê 显济书社 was rebuilt in 1993. Central altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Right altar: Jiayou shenghou 嘉祐圣侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人 (commonly call Furenma 夫人妈). 3) Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xianjimiao 显济庙 is dedicated to Song imperially enfeoffed Weiling jiayouhou Zhugong 宋敕封威灵嘉祐侯朱公 and to Ziyang zhuwengong 紫阳 朱文公 (Zhu Xi 朱熹). 5) Fengluangong 凤峦宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Side altars: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Xinqionglou 新瓊楼 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Xingshengci 兴圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 8) Taihuci 太湖祠 was built in Ming Wanli 20 (1592), at the urging of Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, a close disciple of Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩, founder of the Three in One religious movement. The temple was listed as one of the major cultural preservation sites of Putian county in 1986, and was renovated in 1992. Front hall, central altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. Right altar: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Back altar: Milefo 弥勒佛. Back hall, central altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Shuiguan dadi 水官大帝. East corridor: Huoguan dadi 火官大帝. West corridor: Wuxian dadi 五显大帝 of Taihuci 太湖祠. Eastern side hall: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Sida jiangjun 四大 将军. Western side hall: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Zhongjun 中军. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 770 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11, the Zhu 朱 take the incense burners of the gods of Xianji shushê 显济书社 to each household to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). Four Fushou 福首 are selected to carry the incense burners. On 1/12–13, the miscellaneous surname group 杂姓 take the incense burners of the gods of Antai xingshê 安泰兴社 to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). Two Fushou 福首 are selected. On 1/14–15, the Zhu 朱 of Puding 舖顶 and the Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 of Houzhu 后珠 take the incense burners of the gods of Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated by the entire village. Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Fengluangong 凤峦宫 is invited to go on procession around the five shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Antai xingshê 安泰兴社. 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师 of Guchenggong 谷城宫 is invited to watch opera. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Jiayou shenghou 嘉佑圣侯. Every twelve years, a procession first takes place through the five shê and then goes all around the streets and lanes of Huangshi 黄石 town. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xianji shushê 显济书社. 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Dongzhou shushê 东洲书社 is held. 11/11: Rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 are held at Taihuci. Three in One scripture masters 三一教经师 are invited to conduct the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the hungry ghosts. Marionette opera is performed. 
V146 Houzhu 后洙 1. Village settlement Originally written Houzhu 后珠 or 后洙. Houzhu is part of Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. Houzhu currently has 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑, Lin 林 and Huang 黄. According to the survey data from 1993, the village has seventy-seven Zheng households, sixty-five Lin households, thirty-five Huang households, seven Chen 陈 households, three Liao 廖 households, seven Wu 吴 households, and one Wang 王 household. The Zheng 郑 came from Longboshê 龙波社 of Dongmen 东门 of Putian city. Divided into four branches, the Zheng have been here for seven generations. Their ancestral tombs are in Shanpai 山牌 of Laixi 濑溪. 3. Village temples 1) Houzhujing Fengshangong 后洙境凤山宫 was rebuilt in 1988. Middle: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Sima shenghou 司马 圣侯. 2) Wenfeng shushê 文峰书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Zhuangliemiao 壮烈庙 was rebuilt in 1932. Middle altar: Weigong shenghou 魏公圣侯. Left altar: Wei jiangjun 魏将军. Right altar: Provincial Governor (Dudu) Qi Jiguang 戚继光都督. Side altars: Huye 虎爷, Gouye 狗爷. 4) Gushansi 古山寺: Built during the Song Dynasty, it was a branch of the Chongxingsi 重兴寺 which (it was claimed) was under the direct administration of Beichengong 北辰宫 (note however that the Beichengong was not built until the late Ming). The temple was led by a Chan master (Chanshi) 禅师 called Seng Rusheng 僧如升. Middle altar: Shijia rulai 释迦如来. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Right altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5) Wenfutan 文福坛 is dedicated to Haigu daye 骸骨大爷, Erye二爷, Guitougong 鬼头公. 6) Fengshanting 凤山亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Fengyingtang 凤应堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, each household is visited by a procession to xingdao (practice the Dao). Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 is taken on this procession, carried by recently married young men, and is returned to the temple on the 9th. Opera is performed for one day. On 1/22, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. Lanterns and candles 喜蜡 are lit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3rd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Villagers participate in the procession of Beichengong 北辰宫 and Guchenggong 谷城宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shenghou 司马圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/2: The birthday celebration of Weigong shenghou 魏公圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed for two days. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/15: Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime 下元普度 rites are carried out at the Wenfutan 文福坛. Marionette plays are performed. 9/5: 
V147 Tadou 塔兜 1. Village settlement Tadou is also called Tashan 塔山 and Sanmenjing 三门井. Tadou is part of Jinghou Administrative Village 井后行政村. The population of Tadou is over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Timing shê 题名社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, Furenma 夫人妈. 2) Ziyangci 紫阳祠: Zhuzi xiansheng 朱子先生 (Zhu Xi 朱熹). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/20 the villagers of Tadou participate in the general overall Yuanxiao rituals of Jingpu 井埔.. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10th month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 
A036 Yuanyong wucun (Yuanyong five village ritual alliance) 员永五村 The five-fold village of Yuanyong is located alongside the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. The area was part of the Fuqiang Yuanyongpu 阜墙员永铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli subcanton 连江里. In the Ming, there were four villages here: Shangyu 上余, Xiayu 下余, Shifu 石阜 and Xiangfeng 象峰. In the early Qing, the following villages separated off: Wulong 五龙, Xinan 新安, Duwei 度尾, Goubian 沟边, Changkeng 长坑 and Xiayu 下余. Currently there are over 4000 people in the five village alliance, and they are managed by the three Administrative Villages of Shuinan 水南, Heping 和平 and Fengshan 凤山行政村. Tianxintai 天心台 temple, located in Changkeng 长坑 village, is the main temple for the five village ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each ding year (once every ten years), on a day determined by divination, the god is carried in a procession to the five villages. This is organized by the temple management committee, made up of representatives of the five villages. Expenses are collected on a proportional basis as follow: Goubian 沟边 40%, Wulong 五龙 30%, Daomei 道美 19%, Changkeng 长 坑 8% and Xiayu 下余 3%. 
A036 Yuanyong five village ritual alliance In this area, historically, the following prominent lineages were renowned for their large numbers of examination graduates: the Yu 余, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Huang 黄, Xu 徐, Wang 王 and the Qiu 邱. In the Song Shaoxi period (1190–1194), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知军 set up a Jinzi 金紫牌坊 memorial arch in honor of Yu Zhen 余振. In Ming Xuande 5 (1430), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Huiyuan 会元牌坊 memorial archway for Chen Zhong 陈中. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Meilong shike 梅陇世科牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Xu lineage 徐. In Ming Chenghua 18 (1482), the Putian District Magistrate 莆田 县丞 set up a Jingbiao zhenjie 旌表贞节牌坊 memorial archway for the Huang lineage 黄. In Ming Chengua 11 (1475), the Fujian Provinical Administration Commissioner 福建布政司 set up a Yakui 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage 吴. In Ming Chenghua 22 (1486), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up Buchan 步蟾牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wang lineage 王. In Ming Hongzhi 12 (1499), the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Xiuyi 繍衣牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Qiu lineage 邱. Finally, in Ming Hongzhi 13 (1500), the Putian District Magistrate 莆田知县 set up a Dengke 登科牌坊 archway in honor of Chen Yuan 陈元. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the five villages of the Yuanyong ritual alliance were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V148 Changkeng 长坑 1. Village settlement Changkeng is part of the Fengshan Administrative Village 凤山行政村. Changkeng village currently has more than 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the He 何 and the Huang 黄. Other surnames include seven households of the Song 宋 and four households of the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Tianxintai 天心台 is the main temple for the five village ritual alliance. Middle altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Left altar: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Left altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Denglongshê 登龙社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Denglongmiao 登龙庙: Middle altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Denglongshê 登龙社 are invited to go on procession within the village territory. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every Ding year 丁年, on a day determined by divination, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to go on a procession around the five village alliance. These events are organized by the five village alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V149 Wulong 五龙 1. Village settlement Wulong is part of the Heping Administrative Village 和平行政村. Wulong village currently has more than 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方 and the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Wu 吴, Zhou 周, Li 李 and Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Tongtiansi 通天寺: Originally built during the Song Dynasty, the temple was rebuilt in Ming Chongzhen 13 (1640), by the Jinshi 进士 Yu Wanxing 余万兴 and another Patron 檀越 named Yu Peng 余鹏. The temple was rebuilt again in Qing Guangxu 33 (1907). Middle altar: Shijia wenfo 释迦 文佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. Side altars: the Eighteen Luohan 十八罗汉. 3) Tongtiantang 通天堂, Lingcongshê 灵聪社: Middle altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Right altar: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 4) Tongmingci 通明祠: Middle altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Fang 方 invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of the Lingcongshê 灵聪社 to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/15, the miscellaneous surnames group invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to go on a procession within their own territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Lingcongshê 灵聪社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/17: 
V150 Goubian 沟边 1. Village settlement Goubian was originally called Shifu 石阜. Goubian is part of the Heping Administrative Village 和平行政村. Goubian currently has 1800 people, and is divided into four shê ritual associations: the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈 and the Lu 卢. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Chen 陈 and Lu 卢. Currently, there exists a Huang and a Chen ancestral hall 宗祠. The Huang have 400 people. They emigrated from Shifu village 石阜村 near the Sijiaoting 四脚亭 of Huangshi, and divided themselves into three branches: Weiguan 为官, Weiqian 为前, and Weimin 为敏. Currently, they are in their 8th and 9th generation. 3. Village temples 1) Shifujing Longdonggong 石阜境龙洞宫 was built in Ming Wanli 12 (1584) and renovated in 1920. The rear hall was rebuilt in 1986 while the front hall was rebuilt in 1990, and finished in 1991. Middle altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Right altar: Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. Left side: Huang daren 黄大人. Right side: Xu jiangjun 徐将军. 2) Yi’anshê 义安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 3) Xingyuan ting 兴元亭, Liantangshê 莲塘社 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯. Front: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 4) Longtougong 龙头宫: Middle altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Fulushê 福禄社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left: Shuibu shangshu 水部尚书. Right: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The right hall is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The left hall is dedicated to Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Right altar: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Huiyuan shuyuan 会源书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Left: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right: Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 7) Julanting 聚兰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left: Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Right: Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. 8) Xingyuanmiao 兴元庙 is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 9) Cishantang 慈善堂 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10) Hanantang 涵安堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5–6, the Lin 林 carry the gods of the Yianshê 义安社 in a procession to each household in their territory to xingdao 行道 (practice the Dao). On 1/7–8, the Huang 黄 do the same. On 1/9–10, the Lu 卢 carry the gods of the Liantangshê 莲塘社 in a procession to each household in their territory to practice the Dao. On 1/11–12, the Chen 陈 carry the gods of the Fulushê 福禄社 in a procession to each household in their territory to practice the Dao. On 1/14, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held for the entire village. On this day, Wenwu zhanggong 文武 张公, Wuwu sima shenghou 文武司马圣侯, Huishi shenghou 惠世圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession around the entire territory. Bonfires are run across 踏火, opera is performed 演戏, and fireworks are set off 放花. During Yuanxiao 元宵, the gods visit each home to xingdao 行道. This is done in the following way: first, the Fushou 福首 pick up the incense burners from the altar of the Yianshê 义安社 to start the procession (起马). Then prayers are made in the hall of each household. After the procession has circled the mountain (Quanshan 圈山) the incense burners are carried to the Longdonggong 龙洞宫. There, Daoist ritual masters 法师 chant the scriptures. Next, the gods and the incense burners are carried to the Julanting 聚兰亭 and then back to the shê. Finally, at the home of the Fushou who is holding the last incense burner of the previous year, three Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual. There were originally only three Fushou but now there are seven. There are three basic requirements for becoming a Fushou. The person has to: 1) take part in the Chunzhai 春斋 Spring Fast (purification) in the first year, and 2) agree to host the Chujiuzao 初九早 (a kind of banquet held on the ninth day of the New Year); and to 3) invite the xianglao 乡老 Village Elders to the feast. Only then can the person become a Fushou in the third year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Chen 陈, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huanggong daren 黄公大人. Opera is performed for two days. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fulushê 福禄社. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Chen 陈, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yianshê 义安社. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Huang 黄 and the Lin 林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Liantangshê 莲塘社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Lu 卢, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/6: 
V151 Daomei 道美 1. Village settlement Daomei is also called Duwei 度尾. Daomei village is managed by the Shuinan Administrative Village 水南行政村. Daomei village currently has 1100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yu 余 and the Song 宋. The Yu have 400 people while the Song have 500 people. Other surnames include the Zeng 曾, Hu 胡, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Chen 陈 and Lu 卢. The ancestor of the Yu, Yu Gaogong 余镐公, is said to have fled to Fujian during the Huang Chao revolt 黄巢起义 of the late Tang Dynasty. The descendants of Yu Yigong 余毅公, an ancestor of the fourth generation, are divided into three branches, of which the Ji branch 季房 has now reached the 33rd generation. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxingshê 永兴社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wulu jiangjun 五路 将军. Right altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Yunshuidong 云水洞: Upper hall: Li zhenren 李真人. Lower hall: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, the Song 宋 take all the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 on a procession within their territory. On 1/8, the Yu 余 take all the gods of Yongxingshê to go on procession within their own territory. On 1/15, the entire village goes on processsion around its entire ritual territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Li zhenren 李真人. Marionette opera is performed. 6/12: 9/12: 7/11: 8/15: 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 (Univeral Salvation of the Middle Prime) rites are carried out at Yunshuidong 云水洞. Marionette opera is performed. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime) rites are carried out at the Yongxingshê 永兴社 and the Yunshuidong 云水洞. Marionette opera is performed. 
A037 Tangxia shisanxiang (Tangxia Thirteen village ritual alliance) 塘下 十三乡 The thirteen village alliance of Tangxia is located along the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system, and it also borders on the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This area was originally part of the Putianli subcanton 莆田里. Later the area was reassigned to the Shadipu 沙堤铺 (police/ self defense unit) and Kangcuopu 康厝铺 of Liangjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming, village of Tangxia 塘下 was already settled, and in the Qing several villages separated off, including Goujiao 沟角, Qiangou 前沟, Dongqiaotou 东桥头, Xiqiao 西桥, Qianyuan 前园, Kangcuo 康厝 and Datie 打铁. Currently there are over 8000 people in the thirteen village ritual alliance. The villages of the alliance which are managed by the two Administrative Villages of Shadi 沙堤 and Tianma 天马. The temple ritual system is divided into thirteen villages: Wuxiang 梧巷, Xiangkou 巷口, Gouding 沟顶, Xiaxincuo 下新厝, Dongzhang 东张, Xizhang 西张, Xigou 西沟, Xiyuan 西园, Zhucuo 朱厝, Kangcuo 康厝, Huangcuo 黄厝, Wucuo 吴厝, and Shanqianzi 山前仔. These are known as the Tangxia thirteen village ritual alliance. The Houguomiao 后果庙 and the Qilongtan 起龙潭 temples, located in Zhucuo 朱厝 village, and the Xianzhougong 仙洲宫 temple located in Dongzhang 东张 village, are the main temples of the Tangxia thirteen village alliance 总宫. The main god of Houguomiao 后果庙 is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and every year with an intercalary lunar fourth month the god goes on a procession through the thirteen villages of the alliance. The main gods of Qilongtan 起龙潭 are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Every twelve years these gods go on a procession around the thirteen villages of the alliance. Finally, the main god of the Tangxia thirteen village ritual alliance Xianzhougong 仙洲宫 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and every year with an intercalary luanr third month, there is a procession around the thirteen villages of the alliance. The main surname groups of this area are the Zhu 朱, Zhang 张 and Huang 黄. There are also the minor surname groups of the Chen 陈, Kang 康, Wu 吴, Xu 许 and Wang 王. The Zhu came from Dongjing 东井 of Huangshi 黄石. There currently exists a Zhu lineage ancestral hall 朱氏宗 祠 and a Zhu lineage genealogy 朱氏族谱. The Zhang came from Hengtang 横塘 of Huangshi, while the Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang 涵江. In the Ming, Shadi 沙堤 was famous for its examination graduates, and the five lineages of the Zhang 张, Huang 黄, Zhu 朱, Chen 陈 and Wang 王 produced altogether fourteen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and forty-two Juren 举人 (Provinical Graduates). In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Xieyuan 解元牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Xu lineage 许. In Ming Tianshun 1 (1457), the Xinghua Assistant Prefect 兴化府通判 set up a Jingkui 经魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In Ming Chenghua 1 (1465), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In Ming Chenghua 8 (1472), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化 知府 set up a Minkui 闽魁牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Qiaozi lianfang 桥梓联芳牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage 张. In the Ming Chenghua and Hongzhi periods (1465–1505), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Shuangfeng 双凤牌坊 and a Lianxian 联宪牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Huang lineage 黄. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, the thirteen villages of the Tangxia ritual alliance all belonged to the black banner alliance. 
V152 Wuxiang 梧巷 1. Village settlement Wuxiang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Wuxiang village has approximately 1200 people. The village is subdivided into three neighborhoods: Xiangkou 巷口, Xiaxincuo 下新厝 and Wuxiang 梧巷. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhang 张 and the Zhu 朱. Other surnames include the Zhou 周, Liu 刘 and Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxing lishê 仲兴里社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingyandong 兴岩洞: Main god: Xun’an Wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Secondary gods: Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Zhenjieting 祯节亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Sancheng chansi 三乘禅寺 is located in Xiangkou 巷口, and was rebuilt in 1990. Main hall (Daxiong baodian 大雄宝殿 is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. Side altars: Eighteen Luohans 十八罗汉. Rear hall (Qingliange 青莲阁) is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Wuxiangwei 梧巷尾 take the gods of Zhongxing lishê 仲兴里社 on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, Xiangkou 巷口 and Xiaxincuo 下新厝 take the gods of Yiqi xishê 义齐西社 on a procession within their own territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xunan wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/29: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/27: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are held. Marionette opera is performed. 
V153 Dongzhang 东张 1. Village settlement Dongzhang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Dongzhang village currently has 728 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi dongshê 义齐东社 is co-owned with Zhucuo 朱厝 and Huangcuo 黄厝. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 2) Xianzhougong 仙洲宫: Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 3) Dongshengtang 东升堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Weituo zunzhe 韦陀尊者. 4) Qingyitang 清一堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, Huangcuo 黄厝 takes the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐东社 on a procession around their territory. On 1/12, Dongzhang 东张 takes the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐东社 on procession around their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar month, a procession of the god is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia 塘下. 4/15–16: Dongzhang 东张 invites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 to watch opera. 4/17–18: Huangcuo 黄厝 invites Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 to watch opera. 11/1: Dongzhang 东张 celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11/3: (Huangcuo 黄厝) celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V154 Xizhang 西张 1. Village settlement Xizhang is part of the Shadi Administrative Village 沙堤行政村. Xizhang village currently has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Zhu 朱 and the Wu 吴. Apart from this, the 400 people of Huangcuo village 黄厝村 also participate in the ritual ceremonies of Xizhang. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi xishê 义齐西社, Weilinggong 威灵宫 is coowned with Xiangkou 巷口, Xiaxincuo 下新厝 and Gouding 沟顶. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 2) Lingxiaodian 凌宵殿: Main god: Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. Secondary gods: Shugong 叔公, Huye 虎爷. 3) Xilaiting 西来亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, the gods of Yiqi xishê 义齐 西社 and Ganglinggong 威灵宫 are carried in a procession around the entire village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/20: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 of Dingzhuang 定庄 is invited to watch opera. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/11–14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Gouding 沟顶 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V155 Zhucuo 朱厝 1. Village settlement Zhucuo is part of Tianma Administrative Village 天 马行政村. Zhucuo village currently has 834 people. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Houguomiao 沙堤境后果庙 (Taiyue xinggong 台岳行宫) is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Bajiang 八将. 2) Qilongtan 起龙潭 was originally built during the Southern Song Qiandao period (1165–1173). The temple was rebuilt in 2002. Main gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods: Wangmu daxian 王母大仙, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. There is a board of directors for the temple committee of Shadipu 沙堤铺. 3) Houguo chansi 后果禅寺 was built in 1944. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦 牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝. 4) Buyun shuyuan 步云书院 was built in the 1929. Main god: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, the gods of Yiqi dongshê 义齐 东社 are carried on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xunan wutaishan 巡按吴泰山. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary lunar month, a procession of the god is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia 塘下. 7/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every twelve years a procession of these gods is held around the thirteen village alliance of Tangxia. 11/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V156 Xigou 西沟 1. Village settlement Xigou is also called Qiangou 前沟. Xigou is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Xigou village has approximately 900 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods: Goutou 沟头 and Qiangouwei 前沟尾. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cheng 程 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi shangshê 义齐上社, Qingling gong 清灵 宫: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. This temple is owned by the Cheng 程. 2) Wufu zushê 五福祖社, Lufu 鲁府: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府 夫人. Secondary gods: Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏 圣妃. This temple is owned by the Wu 吴. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the Wu 吴 of Qiangouwei 前沟尾 invite the gods of Wufu zushê 五福祖社 to go on procession within their territory. On 1/14, the Cheng 程 of Qiangoutou 前沟头 invite the gods of Yiqi shangshê 义齐上社 to go on procession within their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/8: The birthday celebration of Xun’an wutaishan 巡按吴泰山 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/19–21: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 of Qiangouwei 前沟尾 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Qiangoutou 前沟头 is held. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 of Wufu zushê 五福祖社 is held. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yiqi shangshê 义齐上社 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V157 Xiyuan 西园 1. Village settlement Xiyuan is also called Qianyuan 前园. Xiyuan is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. The entire village currently has 380 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yiqi zhongshê 义齐中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Zongjutang 宗聚堂 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3) Jubaoting 聚宝亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Yiqi zhongshê 义齐 中社 and Zongjutang 宗聚堂 are taken on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V158 Kangcuo 康厝 1. Village settlement Kangcuo is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Kangcuo village currently has 560 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Kang 康. 3. Village temples 1) Yixing shushê 义兴书社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yanxiatang 衍夏堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Yixing shushê 义兴书社 are taken on a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/1: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshangong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V159 Wucuo 吴厝 1. Village settlement Wucuo is is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Wucuo village currently has 678 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Yiqi xingshê 义齐兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the gods of Yiqi xingshê 义齐 兴社 are invited to go on procession within its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/6: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/6–7: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Fengshan gong 凤山宫 is invited to watch opera. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V160 Shanqianzi 山前仔 1. Village settlement Shanqianzi is part of the Tianma Administrative Village 天马行政村. Shanqianzi village currently has 167 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups: the Zhuang 庄 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Longxingshê 隆兴社, Chaoyanggong 朝阳宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the incense burners of the shê temple are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). At night a lantern procession traces the village boundaries, while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A038 Huiyang bashê (Huiyang eight shê ritual alliance) 惠洋八社 
V161 Huiyang 惠洋 1. Village settlement Huiyang is also called Houyang 后洋, and is located along the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan irrigation system. In the early Qing, this area was declared off limits (beyond the borders 界外) and was evacuated. Huiyang village was originally part of the Huiyangpu 惠洋铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming the village of Huiyang was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Dongmian 东面, Fangcuoding 方厝顶 and Duwei 度尾 separated off from Huiyang village. Nowadays all these villages have joined back together into one continuous “natural village”, but with a overall population of over 11,000 people. Huiyang is managed by two Administrative Village Committees: namely Huishang 惠上 and Huixia 惠下. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of surname groups into eight shê ritual associations. The Fengxunshê 凤浔社 temple of Huishang 惠上 is the founding shê altar of the eight shê of Huiyang (see below), and the Zhenwudian 震武殿 temple Huiyang eight shê ritual alliance of Huixia 惠下 is the main temple of Huiyang (see below). These temples are managed by a temple committee made up of representatives of the eight shê ritual associations. Each year with a intercalary third lunar month, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fengxunshê 凤浔社 are taken on a procession to the eight shê altars of the alliance. In the Ming, Houyang was famous as a region that produced examination graduates. The five main lineages of the area, the Fang 方, Zhou 周, Wu 吴, Yu 俞 and Liu 刘 together had six Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and fourteen Juren 举人 (Prefectural Graduates). In Ming Hongzhi 4 (1491), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Fang lineage 方. In Ming Hongzhi 10 (1497), the Xinghua Prefect set up another Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway, this time to honor the Wu lineage 吴. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, the eight shê of Huiyang were part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups Currently, the main surname groups are the Fang 方, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Liu 刘 and Zhou 周. The Fang came from Youtang 游塘 of Chengxiang 城厢, and there exists a Fang ancestral hall 方氏宗祠. The origin of the Chen is unclear. There exists a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏宗祠. The Wu came from Longdu 龙渡 of Huangshi, and are divided into three branches. There exists a Wu ancestral hall 吴氏宗祠. They are of the same ancestry as the Wu of Xibei 西陂吴. 3. Village temples 1) Fangxunshê 方寻社 is subdivided into eight shê ritual associations: Yongtai zhongshê 永泰中社, Yongtai dongshê 永泰东社, Yongtai xishê 永泰西社, Yongtai heshê 永泰合社, Yongan shushê 永安 书社, Yongning xishê 永宁西社, Yongheshê 永和社 and Xinxunshê 新寻社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Zhenwudian 震武殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Huiyangjing Qiongshangong 惠洋境琼山宫: Located in Huishang 惠上, this temple was originally built in the Qing Yongzheng 13 (1735), and was renovated in both Qianlong 48 (1783) and in Jiaqing 23 (1818). The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘, Tiegong yuanshuai 铁公元帅, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Chima jiangjun 赤马 将军, Baima jiangjun 白马将军. 4) Huiyangjing Yonglongmiao 惠洋境永龙庙 is located in Huishang. The main god is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Wubu yuanshuai 五部元帅. 5) Huiyangjing Zhenlongmiao 惠洋境震龙庙, Xinxunshê 新寻社 is located in Huixia 惠下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Lizhangzhe 李长者. 6) Baorisi 宝日寺 is located in Huishang 惠上. The main god is Rulaifo 如 来佛. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦驮, Jialan 伽蓝. 7) Shangtianfu 上天府 is located in Huishang. The main gods are Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 8) Fushunsi 福顺寺 is located in Huixia 惠下. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 9) Shixiatang 释夏堂 is located in Huixia. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 10) Benshantang Buddhist temple 宝积寺 was built in Huishang in Guangxu 27 (1901). (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 11) Shanhetang Buddhist temple 善和堂 (in Huishang) was built in Xuantong 2 (1910). (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 12) Jinxian temple 金仙寺 (Huishang) was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 13) Baoji temple 宝积寺 (Huishang) was built in the Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 14) Shanhean 善和庵 (Huishang) was rebuilt in 1966. (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 15) Yongjuci 永居祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 750 initiates. 16) Mingyitang 明仪堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 425 initiates. 17) Zhonghetang 中和堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 330 initiates. 18) Xingxiatang 行夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 470 initiates. 19) Benshantang 本善堂 was built in Guangxu 27 (1901). (PTZJZ, 1992: 218). 20) Zhengchang temple 真常寺 (Huishang) was built in Republican period (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the Zhou 周 of Yongtai heshê 永泰合社 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on a procession around their territory. On 1/10, the miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 of Yongheshê 永和社 do the same in their own territory. On 1/11, the Liu 刘 of Yongan shushê 永安书社 do the same rituals in their own territory. On 1/12, the Fang 方 of Yongtai dongshê 永泰东社 do the same in their territory. On 1/13, the Wu 吴 of Yongtai zhongshê 永泰中社 to the same in their territory. On 1/14, the Chen 陈 of Yongning xishê 永宁西社 do the same in their territory. On 1/15, the Fang 方 of Fangxunshê 方寻社 do the same in their territory. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 of Yongtai xishê 永泰西社 do the same in their territory. On 1/18, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 fetival is held for the eight shê alliance. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 goes on procession within the entire ritual territory of Huiyang. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year with an intercalary third lunar month, these gods are taken on a procession around the eight-fold shê. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. The midautumn festival is celebrated. 
A039 Dongdai liujia (Dongdai six jia ritual alliance) 东埭六甲 
V162 Dongdai 东埭) 1. Village settlement Dongdai is located along the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. It was originally part part of the Dongdai pu 东埭铺 of the Lianjiangli sub-canton 连江里. The village began forming here in the Qing dynasty, and now has around 4000 inhabitants. Dongdai is both a natural village and an Administrative Village. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage and residential settlements into six jia ritual associations: Shanglang 上廊, Xiting 西亭, Houting 后亭, Xizhi 西至, Xicuo 西厝, and Miscellaneous surnames 杂姓. In the feuding banner alliances at the end of the Qing, Dongdai remained neutral. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zheng 郑 and the Chen 陈. The Zheng are divided into two branches, and live in Shanglang, Xizhi and Xicuo. They also have a Zheng ancestral hall. The Chen are divided into three branches, and lives in Xiting and Houting. There used to be a Chen ancestral hall, but it has been changed into a school. 3. Village temples 1) Dongdaijing Yongxinggong 东埭境永兴宫 is the main temple for the six jia ritual alliance. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. Dongdai six jia ritual alliance 2) Taipingshê 太平社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 3) Lingyingdian 灵应殿 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Chihuci 池壶祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 5) Kaiyuantang 开元堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 1920 initiates. 6) Zhonghetang 中和堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1350 initiates. 7) Tehuci 特壶祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1406 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4–6, the first opera of the year (Touchangxi 头场戏) is performed. On 1/13, the gods of Taipingshê 太平社 are invited to go to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on a procession within the entire village. Each year, each jia takes turn to be the host, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. One elder is appointed as the overall Fushou 福首. Newly wed men can bid for the chance to carry the statue of the gods. On 1/14, there is the “snatch the Bodhisattva” 抢菩萨 rite. The statue of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 can be detached and brought home for worshipping purposes. Later, it will be returned to the temple along with a monetary tribute. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year of the dragon (once in the twelve year cycle), on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is carried in a sedan chair in a procession around the five shê. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Lanpen pudu 兰盆 普度 Rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts are performed. Marionette opera is performed. 
A040 Jinshan sijia (Jinshan four jia ritual alliance) 金山四甲 
V163 Jinshan 金山 1. Village settlement Jinshan is also called Daguiyu 大龟屿. It was originally part of the Daguiyupu 大龟屿铺 (police/defense unit) of the Lianjiangli subcanton 连江里. In the Ming the village of Daguiyu was already settled. Now it is managed by the Jingshan Administrative Village 金山行政村, and village currently has 4278 residents. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage and residential affiliation into four jia ritual associations: Haitou 海头, Weicuo 尾厝, Zhongjing 中境, and Dongshê 东社. In the feuding banner alliances of the later Qing, the four jia of Jinshan were part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱 and the Lin 林. The Zhu are divided into two branches: Shifu 石阜 and Gutian 古田, and the two branches live in Haitou and Zhongjing respectively. Each branch has its own ancestral hall. The Lin are the Lin of Jiumu 九牧林. They emigrated from Yaotai village 窑台村 of Huangshi 黄石, and are said to be the earliest inhabitants of the village. Currently, they live in Dongshê and Weicuo. In recent years, their ancestral hall was rebuilt while their genealogy was revised. 3. Village temples 1) Lianjiangjing Jinshangong 连江境金山宫: Originally built in Qianlong 1 (1736), the temple was rebuilt in 1995. It is the main temple for the four jia ritual alliance of Jinshan. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and the Bajiang 八将. 2) Yonganshê 永安社 is the ancestral shê (zushe) of the four jia ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Yongan zhongshê 永安中社 is decicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Yongan dongshê 永安东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Yongan jingshê 永安井社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Yongan xishê 永安西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. This temple was built in the Daoguang period (1821–1850) and rebuilt in 2001. 7) Lingyingdian 凌应殿 was built in the Qianlong period ( 1736–1795) and rebuilt in 1995. The temple was originally dedicated to Sizhou wenfo 泗洲 文佛. Now the main god is Yuhuangdadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods are: 
A040 Jinshan four jia ritual alliance Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Xuntan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. The temple preserves the following stelae: Jiaqing 9 (1804) 凌应殿 香灯记 (Record of the Incense and [Oil] lamp [Contributions] to the Temple of Surpassing Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:267, No. 232) and Xianfeng 6 (1856 )建凌应殿碑 (Stone inscription on the reconstruction of the Temple of Surpassing Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:320, No. 284). 8) Muniangdian 母娘殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and Tianshang muniang 天上母娘. The secondary god is Wang xiansheng 王先生. 9) Qingyundong 清云洞 is dedicated to Zhongkui dasheng 钟馗大圣 and Kongfu daren 孔府大人 . 10) Hushu guanshengdian 护书关圣殿 is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣 帝君. The secondary gods are Guanshizi 关世子and Zhoujiangjun 周将军. 11) Yujingmiao 玉井庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 12) Guishanmiao 龟山庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 13) Dewenfu 德文府 is dedicated to Wu daren 吴大人. 14) Lizhangzhe miao 李长者庙 is dedicated to Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者. 15) Meishange 梅山阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 16) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 690 initiates. 17) Mingyuetang 明月堂 was built in 1871. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, the secondary gods are Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 905 initiates. 18) Hongyitang 弘一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 19) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 was destroyed in 1970, rebult in 1990, and enlarged in 2000. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and the secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 20) Deyuantang 德源堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 21) Deshanan 德善庵. (PTZJZ, 1992:218) 22) Hanyitang 涵一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 600 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, the Zhu 朱 of Haitou 海头 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Zhu 朱 of Zhongjing 中境 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 of Weicuo 尾厝 go on procession within their territory. On 1/12, the Lin 林 of Jingshê 井社 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/13, the Lin 林 of Xishê 西社 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/14, the Lin 林 of Dongshê 东社 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/16 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held for the entire village. The gods of Jinshangong 金山宫 are invited to go on procession to each of the four jia ritual associations. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yonganshê 永安社 is held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every year of the dragon (once in the twelve year cycle), on a day determined by divination, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is carried in a sedan chair in a procession around the five shê. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Yang jiu niang 杨九娘. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongan xishê 永安西社. Opera is performed. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A041 Dongjia sijia (Dongjia four jia ritual alliance) 东甲四甲 
V164 Dongjia 东甲 1. Village settlement The four jia ritual alliance of Dongjia is located between the Houyang 后洋 main channel of the Mulan irrigation system and the sea dikes at the mouth of the Mulan river. Dongjia was originally part of the Dongjiaopu 东角铺 of the Lianjiang sub-canton 连江里. In the Ming the village of Dongjia had already been settled, and currently there are approximately 10,000 residents. The village is managed by the two Administrative Villages of Dongjia 东甲 and Xucuo 徐厝. The temple ritual system is divided into four jia ritual associations on the basis of lineage and residence: these are Dongtou 东头, Xicuo 西厝, Xucuo 徐厝, and Xiecuo 谢厝. The Liuqidian 流憩殿 temple of Xucuo 徐厝 (see below) is the main temple of the four jia ritual alliance, and the Xin’anshê 新安社 (see below) is the founding shê of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four jia alliance of Dongjia was part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Xu 徐 makes up 50% if the population of Dongjia and the Xie 谢 makes up another 33%. Other surnames include the Zhu 朱, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Zhang 张, Wang 王, Zhuo 卓, Zhou 周, Wu 吴, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Dongjiamiao 东甲庙, Liuqidian 流憩殿 was originally built in Ming Hongwu 1 (1368), and then was rebuilt in the Qing Tongzhi 3 (1864), and renovated in 1928. The main god is Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods are Zhang Tianshi 张天师 and the Bajiang 八将. This temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 1 (1851) entitled 重整 东甲庙题捐碑 (Stele announcing the merit of those involved in the renovation of the Dongjia Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:318, No. 282) and another stele composed in Guangxu 13 (1887) entitled 东甲庙社公会 碑记 (Stele on the Dongjia temple shê association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:344, No. 307). 2) Xinanshê 新安社, Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Dongjia Xinanshê 东甲新安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Ligong zhangzhe 李公长者, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Tianbaodian 天保殿 is dedicated to Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. The secondary god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Shunxingfu 顺兴府 was originally built in Guangxu 1 (1875). The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 
A041 Dongjia four jia ritual alliance 6) Donglin chansi 东林禅寺 was built in Tongzhi 11 (1872), it is part of Guishansi 龟山寺. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 伽蓝. 7) Feiyunge 飞云阁 was built in Ming Jiajing 4 (1525). The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Donglinci 东麟祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. This temple preserves a stele composed in 1944 entitled 东麟祠香灯产业碑记 (Stone inscription on the properties provided for incense and oil lamps for the Eastern Unicorn Shrine) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:371, No. 337). 9) Ciyunan 慈云庵 (PTZJZ, 1992:218). 10) Chongxunci 崇勋祠 preserves a stele composed by Zheng Yue 郑岳 in the Jiajng period ( 1522–1566) entitled 郡守黄侯修筑石隄碑 (Stele on the repairs and expansion of the stone dike by Prefect Huang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:172, No. 150). 11) Qingshanci 清山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 515 initiates. 12) Dechengci 德成祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 650 initiates. 13) Wanchengci 万成祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 501 initiates. 14) Donglinci 东麟祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 635 initiates. 15) Yushanci 玉山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 740 initiates. 16) Wanxingci 万兴祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 660 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Dongtoujia 东头甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/12, Xicuojia 西厝甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/15, Xucuojia 徐厝甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/16, Xiecuojia 谢厝甲 take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then take the gods on procession within their territory. On 1/23, a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held for the four jia ritual alliance. Yuantian shangdi 元天 上帝 of Liuqidian 流憩殿 is invited to go on procession within the entire territory of the four jia of Dongjia 东甲. The gods of Jiangping shushê 江平 书社 are also invited to go on procession within this territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 2/30: 3/15: 3/23: 4/19: 5/13: 8/9: 8/13: 10/13: 11/24: 
A042 The birthday celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every lunar third month, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 goes on procession within the four-fold jia. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinanshê 新安社 of Dongjia 东甲. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is celebrated as a midautumn festival. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinanshê 新安社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The birthday celebration of Maoxian zushi 茂仙祖师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Dongshan sishê (Dongshan four shê ritual alliance) 东山四社 Dongshan is also called ZouZengXu 邹曾徐 and Sancuo 三厝. It is located between the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system and the coastal sea dikes below the mouth of the Mulan river, near the Dongshan sluice-gate. It was originally part of the Zouzengxupu 邹曾 徐铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. In this area in the Ming there already was a village called Zou Zeng Xu 邹曾徐. Currently, the population of Dongshan is over 10,000 people, and it is managed by two Administrative Villages: Dongshan 东山行政村 and Dongyuan 东源行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of residence and lineage into the four shê ritual associations of Shangzou 上邹, Xiazou 下邹, Dongcuo 东厝, and Zhengcuo 郑厝. The Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 of Shangzou village 上邹 (see below) is the main temple for the four shê ritual association. The two main surnames of this area are the Zou 邹 and the Zheng 郑. The Zou have over 6000 people. The Zou ancestors are said to have emigrated from Zou county of Shandong province 山东邹县 to Putian 莆田 during the Jianyan period of the Southern Song Dynasty (1127–1130). In the Ming dynasty, the Zou were a prominent lineage with many successful examination Dongshan four shê ritual alliance graduates. They produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and seven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). The Fancan Family Temple 藩参 家庙, first built in Ming Jiajing 29 (1550) and still extant, is the ancestral lineage hall of the Zou of Dongshan 东山, as well as of the Zou of Xindu 新度 and Xiyuan 西园, etc. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four shê of Dongshan were part of the black banner alliance. 
V165 Shangzou 上邹 1. Village settlement Shangzou is part of the Dongshan Administrative Village 东山行政村. The current population of Shangzou is more than 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zou 邹. There are also a small number of the Zeng 曾 families. 3. Village temples 1) Chongjiaogong 崇教宫: Main god: Zhuzi 朱子. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Jiangping shushê 江平书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Li zhangzhe 李长者, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Aoshen 澳神. 3) Longdetan 隆德坛: Main god: Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Mingxiatang 明夏堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 5) Dongshan 东山 Xingrenci 行仁祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:13 claims that there are 3000 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Jiangping shushê 江平书社 are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 go on procession within the four shê ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Every year of the dragon, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 go on procession within the five-fold shê on a day determined by divination. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V166 Xiazou 下邹 1. Village settlement Xiazou is part of Dongyuan Administrative Village 东源行政村. The current population is approximately 5000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zou 邹. There are also a small number of the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wen Sima shengwang 文司马圣王, Wu Sima shengwang 武司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 and Li zhangzhe 李长者. 2) Xuanlugong 玄鲁宫 (Beijidian 北极殿): Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wang lingguan 王灵官, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xingdongmiao 兴东庙: Main god: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Shanshuitang 山水堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1619 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, the gods of Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15 a general Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê are invited to go on procession within the four shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every 12 years, on a day determined by divination, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on procession within the four shê alliance. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Marionette plays are performed. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Xingdongmiao 兴东庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Denglong zushê 登龙祖社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V167 Dongcuo 东厝 1. Village settlement Dongcuo is part of the Dongshan Administrative Village 东山行政村. The current population is approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 徐. There are also close to 200 people of the Yu 余 surname. The Yu of the village came from Xiyu 西余 of Dongjiao 东郊, and are of the same ancestry as the Yu of Duwei 度尾余氏. Their lineage hall name 堂号 is Cishu 赐书. There currently exists the Yushi Qianxianci 余氏佥宪祠 and the Xianghetang 祥和堂. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxingshê 中兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Xiandemiao 显德庙, Qingling fu 清灵府 is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相宫, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 3) Shengpinggong 盛平宫: Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公 元帅. 4) Jufengting 举风亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Hongxiatang 宏夏堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Shayundong 沙云洞: Main god: Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Sanye 三爷, Siye 四爷. 7) Shanyuntang 善云堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 990 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the gods of Zhongxingshê 中兴社 are taken to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê 登龙 祖社 are invited to go on procession within the four shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Every dragon year, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken on a procession within the four shê alliance on a day determined by divination. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxingshê 中兴社. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Daye 大爷 of Shayundong 沙云洞. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V168 Zhengcuo 郑厝 1. Village settlement Zhengcuo is part of the Dongshan Administrative Village 东山行政村. There are currently more than 1500 people living in the village, of whom over two thirds are Christians. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Aoshen 澳神. 2) Shanyuntang 善云堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 1322 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, the gods of Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 are taken to each (non-Christian) household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then go on procession within their territory. On 1/15 an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Chongjiaogong 崇教宫 and Denglong zushê 登龙祖社 are invited to go on procession within the four shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A043 Dounan wushê (Dounan five shê ritual alliance) 斗南五社 
V169 Dounan 斗南 1. Village settlement Dounan is also called Doumentou 斗门头. Dounan is located on the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. Dounan was originally part of the Yantou Dounanpu 岩头斗 南铺 of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. The village first took shape during the Qing. The current population is more than 2000 people. Donan is both an Administrative Village as well as a natural village. The temple ritual system is divided primarily by surname into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Zhu 朱, Lin 林, Zheng 郑, and Yang 杨. There are also the minor surnames of Cai 蔡, Luo 罗, Zhang 张, and Zhang 章. 3. Village temples 1) Nanyanggong 南阳宫: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Xingxian shushê 兴贤书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王. 5) Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Xingtaishê 兴泰社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the Lin 林 invite the gods of Xingxian taishê 兴贤泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/10, the Zhu 朱 invite the gods of Longcang shangshê 龙苍上社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/11, the Luo 罗, Zhang 张, Zhang 章 and Cai 蔡 invite the gods of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry Dounan five shê alliance out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/12, the Yang 杨 invite the gods of Xingtaishê 兴泰社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/15, the Zheng 郑 invite the gods of Xingxian shushê 兴贤 书社 to visit each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao) and then to go on procession within their territory. On 1/24, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 is celebrated by the entire village. The gods of Nanyanggong 南阳宫 are invited to go on procession within the five shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A044 Pingshan wushê (Pingshan five shê ritual alliance) 屏山五社 
V170 Pingshan 屏山) 1. Village settlement The five shê alliance of Pingshan is located alongside the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. Pingshan was originally part of the Qiantangpu 钱塘铺 (police/defense unit) of the Pingshan Xingfuli sub-canton 屏山兴福里. In the Ming, the village of Chenshan 陈山 was already settled in this area. In the Qing the village of Hucuo 湖厝 (now known as Meihu 梅湖) separated off. These are now combined into Pingshan 屏山 village, which has a population of more than 3000 people, and which is managed by the Pingshan Administrative Village 屏山 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to surnames and settlement into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. Other surnames include the Liu 刘, Xu 徐, Zhang 张, and Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Taihegong 太和宫: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师. Secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 2) Yicheng zushê 义成祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Yicheng xingshê 义成兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Yicheng shushê 义成书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Pingshan five shê ritual alliance 5) Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Meihujing Guangrong shushê 梅湖境光荣书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huilie shenghou 惠烈圣侯, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Erye 二爷, Sanye 三爷. 7) Zongkongci 宗孔祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Meihu 梅湖 invites the gods of Guangrong shushê 光荣书社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/12, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of Yicheng shushê 义成书社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/13, the miscellaneous surname group 杂姓 invites the gods of Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/14, the Li 李 invite the gods of Yicheng xingshê 义成兴社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/15, the Chen 陈 invite the gods of Yicheng zushê 义成祖社 to visit each household to xingdao and to go on procession within its territory. On 1/20–30, on a day determined by divination, an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵 festival for the five shê alliance is held. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to go on procession around Pingshan 屏山 and Meihu. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yicheng zushê 义成祖社. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xianxian dongshê 先贤东社. 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Guangrong shushê 光荣书社. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yicheng shushê 义成书社. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct Jiao rites. Houji qijing (Houji sevenfold ritual alliance) 后积七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Houji is located along the sea-dikes near the mouth of the Mulan 木兰 River. In the early Qing, this region was considered out of bounds (jiewai 界外), and was evacuated. The area was originally part of the Houjipu 后积铺 of Dongxiang 东乡and the Chengkoupu 程口铺 (police/defense units) of the Xingfuli sub-canton 兴福里. In the Ming there were already the villages of Dongzhang 东张, Houji 后积, Chengkou 澄口, and Yangbin 洋滨. In the Qing, the villages of Qicuo 歧厝 and Louxia 楼下 separated off. Currently the population is over 8000 people, divided into three Administrative Villages, namely Dongfeng 东风, Tingjiang 汀江 and Tingfeng 汀峰. The Wanlinggong 万灵宫 temple, located in Houji village, is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Kong Daren 孔大人 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Each year on lunar 1/29 to 2/2, Wulu jiangjun is carried in a procession to the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Every sixty years, Kong Daren is carried in a great procession around scores of villages in the vicinity. These events are organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of the sevenfold ritual alliance, with each village having a voice in the decisions. The Zhu surname of Chengkou 澄口朱 was historically a prominent lineage with many examination graduates, producing two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) during the Ming. In Ming Chenghua 11 (1475) the Regional Inspector 巡按御史 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway for the Zhu lineage of Chengkou village 澄口朱. In Ming Chenghua (1476) the Putian District Magistrate 莆田知县 set up a Jingbiao zhenjie 旌表贞节牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage of Chengkou village 澄口吴. In Ming Hongzhi 2 (1489), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Chaoyang mingfeng 朝阳鸣凤牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Zhang lineage of Chengkou 澄口张. 
V171 Dongxiang 东乡 1. Village settlement Dongxiang was originally known as Dongzhang 东张, and is part of the Dongfeng Administrative Village 东风行政. Dongxiang has a total population of approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Zou 邹, the Weng 翁, and the Lin 林. The Chen make up two thirds of the population. 3. Village temples 1) Dongshanjing shiwushê 东山境石屋社 Canglonggong 苍龙宫. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 
A045 Houji qijing sevenfold ritual alliance Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yangshi jiuniang 杨氏九娘, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷. 2) Dongxingdian 东兴殿: The main god is Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. Secondary gods include Ma yuanshuai 马元帅 and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 3) Chongxingan 重兴庵: The main god is Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4) Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 is in Dongcuojing ritual territory 东厝境: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Aoshen 澳神. 5) Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwan 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马 圣王 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 6) Jufengting 举风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Shayundong 沙云洞: The main god is Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Dongshan region 东山境 invites all the gods of Shiwushê 石屋社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual. The celebration is organized by the territory itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 the Dongcuojing 东厝境 invites all the gods of the Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社 and the Xingxian lishê 兴贤里 社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the territory itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Mingtongdian 明通殿 and funding is collected through voluntary contributions. Beidou marionette opera 北斗戏 is performed. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the whole village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Marionette plays are performed. The celebration is organized by the Dongxingdian 东兴殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Dongshanjing 东山境, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣候 is also the occasion for the performance of the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts, which involves the performance of Mulien plays 目莲戏 (usually with marionettes). Three in One Scripture Masters 经师 are invited to perform the rites. This event is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed. This is organized by the Dongcuo region 东厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shiwushê 石屋社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongshan ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Kaipu dongshê 开莆东社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongcuo 东厝 ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxian lishê 兴贤里社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Dongcuo 东厝 ritual territory and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Baima shenghou 白马圣候 is also the occasion for the performance of the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance for the hungry ghosts, which involves the performance of Mulien plays 目莲戏 (usually with marionettes). Three in One Scripture Masters 经师 are invited to perform the rites. 
V172 Houji 后积 1. Village settlement Houji is part of Dongfeng Administrative Village 东风行政村. Houji village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Xu 徐, the Lin 林, and the Weng 翁. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 and a Manichean stele 摩尼教残碑 has been preserved in the Wanlinggong 万灵宫. 3. Village temples 1) The Yongxingshê 永兴社 is within the Wanlinggong 万灵宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Kong daren 孔大人 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Siye 四爷, and Wuye 五爷. 2) Houshanci 厚山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 all the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 and the Wanlinggong 万灵宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路 将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanling gong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. The Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. For all the events above, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by Houshanci 厚山祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 10/17: The birthday celebration of Kong daren 孔大人. On this occasion, as for the birthday of the gods of the shê altar preceeding it, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every 60 years, Kong daren of Xiling 西灵孔大人 goes on procession around the numerous villages in the region. These events are organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and each village sends a representative to participate in the management of the event. Kong Daren is considered one of the most powerful Wangye 王爷 of the Putian plains. 
V173 Qicuo 歧厝 1. Village settlement Qicuo is part of Dongfeng Administrative Village 东风行政村. The population of Qicuo is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yu 余. There are 200 people in this village who are Christians. 3. Village temples 1) The Wananshê 万安社 is within the Qishangong 歧山宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Qishanci 歧山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Chensheng fashi 陈圣法师. 3) Jinquansi 金泉寺: The main gods are Shijia wenfo 释伽文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 all the gods of Wananshê 万安社 and the Qishangong 歧山宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V174 Yangbian 洋边 1. Village settlement Yangbian was originally known as Yangbin 洋滨. Yangbian is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The population of Yangbian is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄and the Zhou 周. There is a Zhou ancestral hall 周氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) The Taipingshê 太平社 is within the Lingqigong 灵崎宫: The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Yangfengci 杨峰祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, all the gods of Taipingshê 太平社 and the Lingqigong 灵崎宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. For both these celebrations, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V175 Qianchengkou 前程口 1. Village settlement Qianchengkou was originally called Chengkou 澄口. Qianchengou is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行 政村. Qianchengkou has a total population of approximately 1800 people. It is divided into a Lin region 林境 and the mixed region 杂境 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Fang 方 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Chengjiangjing Qiantanggong 澄江境钱塘宫 includes the Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhaoling shengjun 昭灵圣君, and Jixing dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 is co-owned with Louxia 楼下: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 3) Fengchici 凤池祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 250 initiates. 4) Fengshanci 凤山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 195 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the Lin 林 segment of the village invites all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and the Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/9 the mixed-surname segment 杂姓 of the village invites all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 to go on procession within its territory and that of Louxia 楼下 village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this territory itself and by Louxia village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 marionette plays are performed. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/5: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. For both these celebrations, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This occasion, which involves opera and ritual performances, is organized by the mixed surname segment 杂境 of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within its territory. 5/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This occasion, which involves opera and ritual performances. These events are organized by the Lin segment 林境 of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis within its territory. 
V176 Louxia 楼下 1. Village settlement Louxia is is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The population of Louxia is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Yaobogong 瑶波宫: The main god is Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 2) Wenminggong 文明宫: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Bi yuanshuai 毕元帅, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Xin yuanshuai 辛元帅, Zhan yuanshuai 占元帅, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, and Guan yuanshuai 关元帅. 3) Yizhong tang 一中堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Sanguan daren 三官大人, and Hu ye 虎爷. 4) Rendetang Buddhist temple 仁德堂. (PTZJZ, 1992:204). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 and Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this territory itself and by the mixed surname group in Qianchengkou 前程口, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession through all the villages within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette plays are performed, and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/21: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 from Xingneng qianshê 兴能前社 (of Qianchengkou village). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is jointly organized by this village itself and by the mixed surname group 杂姓 in Qianchengkou 前程口 and funds are collected on a per capita basis within these areas.. 
V177 Houchengkou 后程口 1. Village settlement Houchengkou is part of the Tingfeng Administrative Village 汀峰行政村. The village is also known as Chengkou 澄口. The population of Houchengkou is approximately 1600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Guo 郭. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Qi 祁, Lin 林, and Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Chengjiangjing Xingneng zongshê 澄江境兴能总社: The temple was built in recent years. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Chengjiangjing Xingneng zushê 澄江境兴能祖社 is within the Ruiyungong 瑞云宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lei daren 雷大人, Bai daren 白大人, Hei daren 黑大人, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Tingjiangjing Xixinggong 汀江境西兴宫: The main god is Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wuying Yuanshuai 五营元帅. 4) Chengjianggong 澄江宫 contains a Taishifu 太师府: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Heidaren 黑大人. 5) Qingfengting 清风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Xingneng zuzhe 兴能祖社 and Ruiyungong 瑞云宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/29–2/1, the Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 of Wanlinggong 万灵宫 of Houji 后积 goes on procession through all the villages within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Wanlinggong 万灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from throughout the entire ritual alliance The birthday celebrations of the Gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/19: The birthday celebration of Bai daren 白大人. 11/17: The birthday celebration of Hei daren 黑大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A046 Chengyang qijing (Chengyang sevenfold ritual alliance) 呈洋七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Chengyang is located alongside the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. In the early Qing, this region was considered out of bounds (jiewai 界外), and was evacuated. These villages originally were part of the Liushan bangtoupu 刘山 榜头铺 (police/defense unit) and Chengyangpu 程洋铺 which belonged to Chengyang sevenfold ritual alliance the Xingfuli 兴福里 sub-canton. In the Ming there were already the village settlements of Bangtou 榜头, Chengyang 程洋, and Hangjing 杭井, and in the Qing the villages of Chencuo 陈厝, Licuo 李厝, and Xiecuo 谢厝 separated off. Currently the population of this area is close to 10, 000 people, and it is administered through the Beigao 北高 and Chengshan Administrative Villages 呈山行政村. The Qunying shushê 群英书社 temple, located in Fangjing 坊井 village, is the founding shê altar of the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. The Chengxianggong 呈祥宫 in Chengbian 埕边 village is the main overall temple of the sevenfold alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the member villages of the sevenfold alliance goes to the Qunying shushê 群英 书社 to take the god on a procession. Each year on lunar 2/25, they carry Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the Chengyanggon 呈祥宫 in a procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the entire sevenfold ritual alliance of Chengyang was part of the white banner alliance. 
V178 Chengbian 埕边 1. Village settlement Chengbian was originally known as Chengyang 程洋 or Licuo 李厝, and it included Wudun 吴墩. Chengbian is part of the Chengyang Administrative Village 呈洋行政村. The population is approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李. There is a Li ancestral hall李氏宗祠. 3. Village temples 1) Xingheshê 兴和社 is within the Chengxianggong 呈祥宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the Li 李 surname group invites all the gods of Xingheshê 兴和社 and the Chengxianggong 呈祥宫 to go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Li 李 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The god is taken on a procession around the sevenfold alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen 下陈 village and the Li 李 surname group. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is also organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen village 下陈 and the Li 李 surname group. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingheshê 兴和社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Li 李 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxianshê 兴贤社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the village as a whole, together with Xiachen下陈village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: 
V179 Xiachen 下陈 1. Village settlement Xiachen village was originally called Chencuo 陈厝. It includes the settlements of Dingchen 顶陈, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Xihu 西湖. Xiachen is part of the Chengshan Administrative Village 呈山行政村. The current population is over 1200. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxianshê 兴贤社 is within the Lingcigong 灵慈宫: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhong jun 中军. 2) Dexingfu 德兴府 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Other gods include Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Zhumaan Buddhist temple 驻马庵 was built in the Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992: 225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Chen 陈 surname group invites all the gods of Xingxianshê 兴贤社 and the Lingcigong 灵慈宫 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The ritual is organized by the Chen 陈 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The birthday of Zhongjun 中军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen village 下陈 and the Li 李 of Chengbian 埕边. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is also organized in annual rotation between the Chen 陈 of Xiachen village 下陈 and the Li 李of Chengbian埕边. 10/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Xingxianshê 兴贤社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: 
V180 Gouge 沟戈 1. Village settlement Gouge village belongs to the Chengshan Administrative Village 呈山行政村. The population of Gouge village is approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The village includes members of several surname groups, including the Yu 余, the Chen 陈, the Zhu 朱, and the Li 李. The Chen 陈 and the Yu 余 are the largest surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Laideng shushê 莱登书社 is within the Mingshangong 名山宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Other gods include Huangfu yuanshuai 黄府元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Zhuishuiting Buddhist temple 竺水亭 was built in Xianfeng 10 (1860). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 the incense burner of the temple is invited to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/16 the gods of the Laideng shushê 莱登书社 are invited on a procession around the village and its boundaries. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters carry out rituals. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of Chengxianggong temple 呈祥宫 3/23: The birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/15: The birthday of Huangfu yuanshuai 黄府元帅. 7/7: The birthday of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is celebrated. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated. In the 11th lunar month, the Lanpen pudu rite of Universal Deliverance 兰盆 普度 is held. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual specialists or Three in One Scripture masters are invited to carry out rituals. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V181 Matou 码头 1. Village settlement Matou was originally called Bangtou 榜头, and it includes Liushan 留山 (also written 刘山), and is part of Chengshan Administrative Village 呈山行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The village has members of the Zhu 朱 and the Chen 陈 surname groups. The Zhu are the largest surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Bangtoujing 榜头境 Denglai xinshê 登莱新社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) 留山祠 Liushanci is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 265 initiates. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 200 initiates. 4) Longshantang 龙山堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 320 initiates. 5) Manyuantang 满源堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:37 claims that there are 200 initiates. 6) Xianglinan Buddhist temple 香林庵 was built in early Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:206) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Denglai shushê 登莱书社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Chengxianggong’s 呈祥宫 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V182 Fangjing 坊井 1. Village settlement Fangjing village was originally called Hangjing 杭井. Fangjing belongs to the Beigao Administrative Village 北高行政村. The current population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Gao 高, the Wu 吴 and the Chen 陈. The Gao and the Wu are the dominant surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Qunying shushê 群英书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lü Dongma 吕洞妈, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Lü Dongma 吕洞妈 is invited from the temple to the homes of the Fushou 福首 to give blessings. On 1/15 a circle of lanterns is formed in a procession. Three Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform a Jiao 醮 ritual. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the Chengxianggong’s 呈祥宫 around the entire ritual alliance. 6/6: The birthday of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/23: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V183 Shecuo 社厝 1. Village settlement Shecuo originally was called Xiecuo 谢庴. Shecuo belongs to the Beigao Administrative Village 北高行政村. The current village population is aproximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The following surnames are found in the village: the Li 李, the Xie 谢, the Guo 郭, the Fang 方 and the Chen 陈. The Li are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Fuanshê 福安社 is included in the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘. Other gods include Niushan dawang 牛山大王, Kangwang yuanshuai 康王元帅 and Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Dufei niangniang 都妃 娘娘 is invited to go on a tour of inspection of the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The village takes part in the procession of Chengyanggong’s 呈祥宫 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 around the entire ritual alliance. 4/8: The birthday of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 9/19: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. 10/19: The birthday of Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/6: The birthday of Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘. No opera is performed. Five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V184 Beigao 北高 1. Village settlement The village was originally known as the settlements of Gaolou 高楼 and Qiaotoudian 桥头店. Nowadays they have been absorbed into the streets of Beigao town 北高街道. The population of the area is over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups This area has the following surname groups: the Li 李, the Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxianshê 兴贤社 of Gaoloujing 高楼境 worships Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 2) Jieshuiting 接水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天 and Jialan wenfo 迦蓝文佛. 3) Shuanglinan Buddhist nunnery 双林庵 was built in Daoguang 20 (1840). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Xingxianshê 兴贤社 are invited to each household to xingdao 行道, and there are processions of lanterns 圈灯. On 1/17 the gods go on a tour of inspection of the borders of the area 绕境巡游. Fireworks are exploded 放炮 and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform Jiao 醮 rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. There are performances of opera and Daoist rituals 醮. Each time there is an intercalary 7th lunar month, Zhanggong is invited to go on a procession around the entire ritual alliance. 9/19: The birthday of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is celebrated. 10/23: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 of the Xingxianshê 兴贤社 is celebrated. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A047 Kengyuan jiucun (Kengyuan nine village ritual alliance) 坑园九村 The Kengyuan nine village ritual alliance is located along the Houyang main channel 后洋大沟 of the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. In the early Qing, this region was considered out of bounds (jiewai 界外), and was evacuated. This area originally belonged to the Gengyuan yuanhoupu 耕原院后舖 (police/defense unit) of Lianjiangli 连江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Kengyuan was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Yuanhou 院后 and Qiandun 前墩 separated off. Currrently, there are over 6000 people living in the area, which is managed by the three Administrative Villages of Kengyuan 坑园, Yuanhou 院后 and Lingtou 岭头. The local temple ritual system is divided into the nine villages of Shangkengyuan 上坑园, Xiakengyuan 下坑园, Dongdu东渡, Shanglingtou 上岭头, Xialingtou 下岭 头, Muqian 墓前, Shangyuanhou 上院后, Xiayuanhou 下院后 and Qiandun 前墩. These are commonly referred to as the Kengyuan jiuqiao (nine holes) 坑园九窍. The Fanglinggong 芳岭宫 temple, located in Xiakengyuan 下坑园 village, is the main temple of the nine village ritual alliance. The main god is Xiling Kong Daren 西岭孔大人. Every year with an intercalary lunar second month Xiling Kong daren is taken on a procession to each village in the nine village alliance. Historically, the Wang lineage 王 of Kengyuan was known for its examination graduates. In the Ming dynasty they produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and five Juren (Provincial Graduates) 举人. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the nine village alliance of Kengyuan was part of the black banner alliance. 
V185 Shangkengyuan 上坑园 1. Village settlement Shangkengyuan belongs to the Kengyuan Administrative Village 坑园行政村. The village currently has a population of approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The Wang 王 make up the dominant surname group. The village has an ancestral hall called the Sanhuaitang Wangshi zongci 三槐 堂王氏宗祠. Kengyuan nine village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Wenchenggong 文成宫 contains the Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社. The main gods worshipped are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师 and Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 villagers go to the Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社 of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 to invite the incense burners from the shê-altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 Magong taishi 马公 太师 goes on a procession to inspect the village boundaries. Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 2/2: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is celebrated and organized by Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Dongdu 东渡 together. Opera is performed and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated. On 6/6: The birthday of Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书 is celebrated. On the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V186 Xiakengyuan 下坑园 1. Village settlement Xiakengyuan belongs to the Kengyuan Administrative Village 坑园行政村. The current population is over 850 people. 2. Surname groups The Wang 王 are the dominant surname group. There is a Wang lineage hall 王氏宗祠, and each year five Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社 is shared with Shangkengyuan 上坑园 and with Dongdu village 东渡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书. 2) Fanglinggong 芳岭宫 is dedicated to Xiling (Kong) daren 西岭(孔)大人. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Shengfu 圣父, Shengmu 圣母, Lan daren 蓝大人, Bai daren 白大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 the gods of Fanglinggong 芳岭宫 go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual 做醮. Each time there is an intercalary 2nd lunar month, on the first day of the 2nd month villagers go to Houji 后积 to present incense to Kong Daren 孔大人, and then go on a procession through all the villages of the Kengyuan jiuqiao 坑园九窍 ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized together with the villages of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Dongdu 东渡. Funding is raised on a per capita basis from all three villages. 6/6: The birthday of Jieyin shangshu 戒印尚书 is celebrated. 7/7: The birthday of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 are celebrated. Marionette plays are performed. 8/23: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is celebrated. 10/26: The birthday of Xiling Kong daren 西岭孔大人 is celebrated. On all the above occasions, unless otherwise indicated, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V187 Dongdu 东渡 1. Village settlement Dongdu village belongs to the Kengyuan Administrative Village 坑园行政村. The current village population is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Wang 王 are the predominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Jingyitang 精一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 villagers go to the Hongxi shushê 洪熙书社 of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 to invite the incense burners from the shê-altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/16, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 goes on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 2/2: The birthday of Zunzhu ming wang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized together with the villages of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Shangkengyuan上坑园. Opera is performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis from all three villages. 3/15: The birthdays of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rituals 7/16: The birthday of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is celebrated. Opera is performed and ritual masters conduct rituals 
V188 Lingtou 岭头 1. Village settlement Lingtou belongs to the Lingtou Administrative Village 岭头行政村. The village includes the settlements of Shanglingtou 上岭头 and Xialingtou 下岭头. The current population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Lingtou includes members of the following surname groups: the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the Wang 王 and the Yang 杨. The Chen are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Fulingjing Anminshê 福岭境安民社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Jiu niangniang 九娘妈, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 2) Fangshanggong 芳山宫 (Taishifu 太师府) was built in Qianlong 51 (1786). The main god worshipped is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Other gods are Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘 and Erlang shen 二郎神 3) Fumating 福马亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Baofengyuan 宝峰院 was built in Zhihe 1 (1054) by the Buddhist Monk Ciming 慈明 and was rebuilt in Hongwu 8 (1375). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 5) Tongming Buddhist temple 通明寺 was rebuilt in 1917. (PTZJZ, 1992: 226) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Anminshê 安民社 go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist ritual masters conduct a Jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 8/26: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. This event is organized together with the villages of Xiakengyuan 下坑园 and Dongdu 东渡. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: the birthday of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 
V189 Muqian 墓前 1. Village settlement Muqian belongs to the Lingtou Administrative Village 岭头行政村. The current population is over 725 people. 2. Surname groups In Muqian, the Chen 陈 surname group is dominant. There are also villagers surnamed Lin 林 and Zhu 朱. There is a Chen great lineage hall 陈氏大宗祠 in which Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is worshipped. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected to manage the hall by drawing lots. 3. Village temples 1) Buxianjing Fudezhengshê 步仙境福德正社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Huanggong ershi 黄公 二使. 2) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 3) The Renshouting 仁寿亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Rendefu 仁德府 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The Huye (tiger god) 虎爷 is also worshipped there. 5) Qingyudong 青云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, with Li daren 李大人 also worshipped. 6) Wanshantang 万善堂 is dedicated to Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/15 the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while a single Daoist ritual master conducts a simple Jiao ritual 做醮. In the evening, a procession of linked lanterns is held 圈灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 7/16 the birthday of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is celebrated and opera is performed. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 
V190 Shangyuanhou 上院后 1. Village settlement Shangyuanhou belongs to the Yuanhou Administrative Village 院后行政村. The village currently has approximately 600 people, 2. Surname groups There are members of the Liu 刘, the Ye 叶 and the Chen 陈 surname groups in the village, but no one group is dominant. 3. Village temples 1) Yangnan zhongshê 洋南中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Qingxiaogong 青宵宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Jubaomiao 聚宝庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Baoen xiangji Buddhist temple 报恩香积院 was built in Jingde 1 (1004). (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 5) Juxingtang Buddhist temple 聚兴堂 was built in the late Qing. (PTZJZ, 1992:225) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/10 the gods go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 6/19: The birthday of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rituals. 8/26: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. 
V191 Xiayuanhou 下院后 1. Village settlement Xiayuanhou is part of the Yuanhou Administrative Village 院后行政村. The current population is over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups There are members of the Liu 刘, the Chen 陈, and Ye 叶 and other surname groups in the village. The Liu are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxing shushê 永兴书社 is dedicated to the worship of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The other gods worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 2) Qingxiaogong 青宵宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Baoshuigong 保水庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners from the shê-altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/15 the gods go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. 10/20: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. 
V192 Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement Qiandun village belongs to the Yuanhou administrative village region 院后行政村. The population of the village is currently approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The village has members of the Liu 刘, the Ye 叶, and the Chen 陈 surname groups, but no one group is dominant. 3. Village temples 1) Julongmiao 聚龙庙 or Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Jumingci 聚明祠 was built in the late Ming dynasty. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Other gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. The hall has over 100 Three in One initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers go to Xiayuanhou 下院后 to the Yongxing zhongshê 永兴中社 to invite the incense burners from the shê-altar to be taken to each household to xingdao 行道. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/12, the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of gods go on a tour of inspection of the boundaries of the village, while Daoist rituals are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 3/3 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is celebrated with opera and Daoist rites. On 7/16 the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is celebrated with opera and Three in One rituals. 
V193 Zhengtang 郑塘 1. Village settlement Zhengtang village is situated alongside the Guoqing Reservoir 国清塘. This areas was originally part of the Zhengtangpu 郑塘 铺 (police/defense unit) of Putianli 莆田里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Zhengtang 郑塘 was already settled, and in the Qing, the villages of Kengbian 坑边 and Tianbian 田边 separated off. Currently all these villages have linked into one continuous village, which is managed by the Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. The current population is around 1350 people, of which some 200 are Christians. In the local temple ritual system, the population is divided up according to lineages into five shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Fang 方, and Fan范. Each surname group has established its own shê-altar. Currently the Lin have declined, and so only four surname groups are now active in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Longtanggong 龙塘宫 contains the altar of the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 which belongs to the Fang 方. This temple was originally the overall main temple of Zhengtang. The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 2) Qianlongshê 前隆社is inside the Longanmiao 龙安庙 and belongs to the Huang 黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 
A048 Zhengtang five shê ritual alliance 3) Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社 is within the Yanningmiao 延宁庙 and belongs to the Fan 范. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Lifu daren 李府大人. 4) Hou’an huangshê 后安黄社 belongs to the Huang 黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 and Zouma sheren 走马舍人. 5) Weilonggong 威龙宫 belongs to the Huang 黄. The main god is Jindaren 金大人, secondary gods include a pair of generals 两位将军. On 12/17 marionette plays are performed. 6) Houan zhengshê 后安正社 of Longqinggong 龙清宫 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Tiansheng shengmu 天上圣母. 7) Budongtang 步东堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 346 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the Qianlongshê 前隆社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/6 the Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社 carries Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/7 the Houan Huangshê 后安黄社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/8 the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 carries the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/9 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Houan zhengshê 后安正社 is invited on a tour of inspection procession around its own territory. In the evening there is a procession of lanterns. On 1/20 the village holds a general Yuanxiao festival. However, because in recent years the various processions from the different shê clashed, there is no longer a general Yuanxiao festival held in the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/1: Yanggong taishi of Fengshangong 凤山宫杨公太师 goes on procession through the Tangxia thirteen village alliance 塘下十三乡, and stays in the village in the Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社 and the Houan huangshê 后安黄社接驾. Opera is performed for two days. 8/23: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Qianlongshê 前隆社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Huang 黄. 10/16: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fangtang zushê 方塘祖社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Fang 方. 11/1: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Houan huangshê 后安黄社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Huang 黄. 12/17: Celebrations for Jindaren 金大人 of Weilonggong 威龙宫. Marionette plays are peformed. This event is organized by the Huang. 12/23: Celebrations for the Zunzun mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing fanshê 仲兴范社. Opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Fan 范. 
A049 Zhukeng qijing (Zhukeng sevenfold ritual alliance) 珠坑七境 The Zhukeng sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the edges of the Guoqingtang Reservoir 国清塘. This area was originally part of the Zhukengpu 珠坑舖 (police/defense unit) of the Putianli sub-canton 莆田里. In the Ming, the village of Chuandu 船渡 was already settled, and in the Qing, the villages of Songu 宋墓, Shanzitou 山仔头 and Shanqianzi 山前仔 had separated off. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to lineage and to settlement into seven shê 七社 ritual associations, also called seven jing 七境 (ritual territories). The Wangshantang 万善堂 temple in Songmu 宋墓 village is the main Pu temple 铺宫 (Defense Unit Temple) of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhukeng. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. According to local legend, there were once collective ritual processions to this temple. Currently, because the Pu Temple rituals have not been revived, the god statues have been distributed to the temples of each of the member villages of the ritual alliance. Songmu 宋墓, Chuandu 船渡 and Shantou 山头 villages take part in the Lantian 蓝田十八乡eighteen village procession, while Shanqianzi 山前仔 takes part in the Tangxia 塘下十三乡 thirteen village procession. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhukeng was part of the white banner alliance. 
V194 Songmu 宋墓 1. Village settlement Songmu is part of the Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. The population of Songmu is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Xin 辛, the Zhang 张, the Chen陈, the Huang 黄, and the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Dongyuanjing Yongangong 东园境永安宫, Zhukengshê 珠坑社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu Zhukeng sevenfold ritual alliance furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Wanshantang 万善堂: The main gods are Chen dage 陈大哥 and Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Zhang erye 张二爷, Zhu sanye 朱三爷, and Wu guniang 吴姑娘. 3) Dongyuantang 东园堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 22 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 all the gods of Yongangong 永安宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V195 Shantou 山头 1. Village settlement Shantou is part of Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. Shantou village is divided into the Shangshê 上社 and Xishê 西社. Both territories have a total population of approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Pan 潘, the Liu 刘, the Xin 辛, the Huang 黄, the Wu 吴, and the Wang 王. 3. Village temples 1) Jinfengjing Xianyingmiao 锦峰境显应庙, Zhukengshang xishê 珠坑上西社 was rebuilt in Xuantong 1 (1909). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Qingyuanci 清源祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 76 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Xishê 西社 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within their part of the village. The Xishê half of the village organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14 Shangshê 上社 invites Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within their part of the village. The Shangshê 上社 half of the village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16 a general Yuanxiao is held. Lanterns are carried in a procession, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/18: The birthday celebration of Zhaoshun shenghou 肇顺圣侯. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V196 Chuandu 船渡 1. Village settlement Chuandu is part of the Zhukeng Administrative Village 珠坑行政村. The population of Chuandu is approximately 1000 people. Chuandu is divided into three shê ritual associations: Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社, Longxing xiashê 隆兴下社 and Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Gudujing Longfenggong 古渡境龙凤宫, Longxing shangxiashê 隆兴上下社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (two statues), Houtu furen 后土夫人 (two statues), and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Wuwei diye 五位帝爷, Zhou gong 周公, Baisui ma 百岁妈, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Gudujing Xinxinggong 古渡境新兴宫, Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4) Zhongyitang 中一堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 551 initiates. 5) Tongminggong 通明宫: The main god is Lüzu xianshi 吕祖先师. Secondary gods include Wu daren 武大人, Huang daren 黄大人, Song daren 宋大人, Song jiangjun 宋将军, Li zhongjun 李中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the Huang 黄 surname group invites all the gods of Xinxinggong 新兴宫 and Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/10 the Liu 刘 surname group invites all the gods of Longfenggong 龙凤宫 and the Longxing shangxiashê 隆兴上下社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Liu surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/13: The birthday celebration of Wu daren 武大人. Marionette plays are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Tongminggong 通明宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration organized by the Liu 刘, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Huang daren 黄大人. Marionette plays are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by Tongming gong 通明宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Xisheng zushê 西胜祖社. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Liu 刘, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Song daren 宋大人. Marionette plays are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Tongminggong 通明宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A050 Lantian shibaxiang (Lantian eighteen village alliance) 蓝田十八乡 The eighteen village alliance of Lantian is located alongside the Guoqingtang 国清塘Reservoir. In the early Qing, this area was declared out of bounds (jiewai 界外) and was evacuated. In the Ming the village of Lantian 蓝田 (Nantian 南田) was already settled, and in the Qing the villages of Zhengjing 郑井 (Danjing 丹井), Muqian 墓前, Houwuzi 后吴仔, Guanpu 官埔, Xiazheng 下郑 (Xiacheng 霞城), Shangxin 上辛, Mubing 墓柄, Shidou 石兜, Guanhu 官湖, Chenxi 陈溪, Xucuo 徐厝, Zhangcuo 章厝, Shantouxia 山头下, Ketang 可塘, Houxiang 后巷, Kengdong 坑东, Lingkou 岭口, Dongsha 东沙, Lantian eighteen village ritual alliance Caomang 草莽, Sutang 苏塘 (Zhutang 珠塘) were settled. Recently, the villages of Dingkengyuan 顶坑园, Chuandu 船渡, Songmu 宋墓 (Dongyuan 东园), Shantou 山头 and Fuling 福岭 and other villages have also joined in the Lantian eighteen village alliance ritual system, so that there is now a total of over twenty villages in the alliance. This area was originally part of the Lantianpu (police/defense unit) 蓝田铺, the Fulingpu 福岭铺, the Xinzheng pu 辛郑铺 and the Shihu luozhaipu 石湖罗宅铺 of the Hepuli sub-canton 合浦里. These villages are managed by four Administrative Villages: Xiazheng 下郑, Laitang 来塘, Laizhai 濑宅 and Sutang 苏塘行政村. The Yongangong 永安宫 temple, located in Lantian 蓝田 village, is the main temple for the eighteen village ritual alliance. The main god worshipped in the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each year on lunar 3/3, divination blocks are cast in the Yongangong 永安宫 to determine whether or not to invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on procession through the eighteen village alliance. At the same time, by casting divination blocks a Xunbu 巡捕 Inspector of the Pu police/defense unit is selected. This individual dresses as a Qing dynasty Pu Inspector and reports to the official Pu headquarters (guanpu 官埔). Thereupon begins the striking of the streets (dajie 打街) rite to clear the way for the god. Only then is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 invited out to go on procession. In the late Qing feuding banner alliances, the eighteen villages of Lantian are all part of the black banner alliance. 
V197 Lantian 蓝田 1. Village settlement Lantian is also known as Nantiang 南田 and is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The population of Lantian village is above 1500 people. 2. Surname groups Lantian has the following main surname groups: the Huang 黄 and the Zhang 张. In addition there are also the Lin 林, the Dai 戴, the Weng 翁, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Kang 康 surnames in the village. Lantian is divided into the Shangshê 上社 and the Zhongshê 中社. Each year each part of the village selects two Fushou 福首 by rotation. 3. Village temples 1) Lantianjing Yongangong 蓝田境永安宫 contains the altar of the Yongan shangshê 永安上社. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tianshang shengmu (two statues) 天上圣母, Lieqiao daren 烈窍大人, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, Asan 阿三, Asi 阿四, and Bajiang 八将. 2) Yongan zhongshê 永安中社. The main gods are, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 3) Xinfatang 新发堂: The main gods are Chen dage 陈大哥, Liu dage 柳大哥 and Zeng dage 曾大哥. 4) Qingliangci 清莲祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 309 initiates. 5) Yixingci 义兴祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 293 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9: the incense burners of Yongan zhongshê 永安中社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods are taken on a tour of inspection of the village boundaries. On 1/10–11, the incense burners of Yongan shangshê 永安上社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, and palm sedan chairs of the gods are taken on a tour of inspection of the village boundaries. On 1/12 the village celebrates a general Yuanxiao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and lanterns are taken on a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and divination blocks are cast to determine the date of a procession of the god through the Lantian eighteen village alliance. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed. 8/15: The birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and the Houtu furen 后土夫人 of both the Yongan shangshê 永安上社 and the Yongan zhongshê 中社. Opera is peformed, and the two shê together celebrated the autumn rites 做秋. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Lieqiao daren 烈窍大人. Opera is performed and a single Daoist master is invited to conduct rituals. 
V198 Houhu 后湖 1. Village settlement Houhu village was originally called Houwuzi 后吴仔. Houhu is part of the Laitang Administrative Village 来塘行政村. The current population is around 346 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Houhujing Yongfu dongshê 后湖境永福东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yunaxiao rituals On 1/14 a single Fushou 福首 invites the incense burner of the Yongfu dongshê 永福东社 to visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, while the gods go procession around the entire village. Birthdays celebrations of the gods 8/19: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 
V199 Guanpu 官埔 1. Village settlement Guanpu is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. The population of Guanpu village is approximately 1500 people. The village is divided into three parts, the Huang 黄, the Donghu Chenshê 东湖陈 and the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xingangong 兴安宫 contains the altar of the Anning dongshe 安宁东社 which belongs to the Huang 黄. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Wangfu Wangjiangjun 王府王将军 and Hongmian Bai daren 红面白大人. 2) Taipingfu 太平府 contains the altar of the Anning dongshê 安宁东社 which belongs to the Donghu Chen 东湖陈氏. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. 3) Anning dongshê 安宁东社 belongs to the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Qingyun shuyuan 卿云书院 belongs to the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The secondary god is Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 5) Wuhuci 五湖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 the Huang 黄 and the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏 take turns inviting the incense burners from their shê altars to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8 the Huang 黄 invite Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 to go on a tour of inspection around the borders 绕境巡游 while the Kuokou Chen 阔口陈氏 invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 to do the same. At night there is a lantern procession. On 1/15 the Donghu Chen 东湖陈 invite the incense burners from their shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 the Donghu Chen 东湖陈 invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on a tour of inspection procession around the village borders. The old Fushou 福首 hand the incense burners over to the new Fushou. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is peformed, and the event is organized by the village as a whole. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 8/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Kuokou 阔口 Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 10/19–20: The rites of Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 Universal Deliverance are performed. Marionettes perform the Mulian 目连 plays. A single Daoist master from Danjing 丹井 village is invited to recite scriptures. This is organized by the Donghu Chen 东湖陈. 
V200 Xiazheng 下郑 1. Village settlement Xiazheng village is also known as Xiacheng 霞城. Xiazheng is part of the Xiazheng Administrative Village 下郑行政村. The current population is approximately 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Xin 辛. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Guo 郭 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Xiachengjing Anning zhongshê 霞城境安宁中社 was repaired in Jiaqing 3 (1798). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Guole shenghou 果乐圣侯, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhonglie shenghou 忠烈 圣侯 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Jingtangong 经坛宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师. 3) Juxingyuan 聚星院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Other gods worshipped are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣 帝君. 4) Longdetang 隆德堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:20 claims that there are 237 initiates. 6) Yuhuci 玉壶祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 308 initiates. 7) Kangjiting Buddhist pagoda 康济亭 was rebuilt in the early Republican period. (PTZJZ, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5–9 each surname groups takes turns to invite the incense burners to their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10 the entire village hold a general Yuanxiao and a lantern procession, and invites Daoist ritual masters to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/19 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 goes on a procession through Xiazheng 下郑, Shangxin 上辛, and Guanpu 官埔 villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/26: The birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 7/16: The feast day of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10/15: The birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist masters or Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis.