V401 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement The population of Houdun village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname. 3. Village temples 1) Chenqiaojing Wenchingdian 陈桥境文成殿 is the main temple of the Chenqiao village 陈桥村总宫 and was built in Qianlong 60 (1795), and restored in 1985 and 1991. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiankui 天魁 and Dikui 地魁. The back hall is dedicated to the parents of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝父母, Wang lingjun 王灵君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Heqing xingjun 何清星君, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and the Twelve Generals. 2) Chenqiaojing Wanan taizushê 陈桥境万安太祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 3) Zhaojiaotang 照角堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods include Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Jialan 伽蓝, Weituo 韦陀, Xianzhu longnü 献珠龙女, Shancai dongzi 善才童子. 4) Yinqiao shuyuan 印桥书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Secondary gods include Beidou kuixing 北斗魁星, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Ziyi shusheng 紫衣书生, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with at least two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5/15: The celebration of Tiankui 天魁 and Dikui 地魁 is held with three days of opera. 5/17: The celebration of Wang lingguan 王灵官. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with Chenqiao 陈桥 village, which takes turns sponsoring opera performances. 
V402 Hanba 涵坝 1. Village settlement Hanba is across an irrigation channel from Chenqiao 陈桥, and has a population of over 100 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surnames in the village, the Li 李, the Zhang 张, and the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Hanbajing Qingyunmiao 涵坝境庆云庙 contains the altars of Dongqingshê 东庆社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, and Fengguang jiutong 风光九童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 invite the gods of the Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 and the Dongqingshê 东庆社 to go on a procession through the village. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 6/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with two days of opera. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V403 Shanbu 山步 1. Village settlement Shanbu was originally called Sanbu 三步. The village of Shanbu has a population of over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname is dominant. They claim to have the same ancestors as the Chen 陈 of Chenqiao 陈桥. 3. Village temples 1) Wan’an dongqingshê 万安东庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zong’aotang 宗鳌堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhenming xianzhu 贞明先主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zuoyou hufa 左右护法. 3) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include the Eighteen Lohan 罗汉. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the gods of the Wan’an dongqingshê 万安东庆社 on a procession through the village. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with two days of opera. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals groups On 10/19 the Zong’aotang 宗鳌堂 performs the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Lanpen rites 兰盆). The ritual is performed by the Three in One initiates of the temple 道友. 
A088 Wujiao sancun (Wujiao three village ritual alliance) 梧郊三村 The Wujiao three village ritual alliance is located along the Central main channel of the Yanshoubei Irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟, and lies alongside the Baishui Reservoir 白水塘. The southern edge of the alliance rests on the north shore of the Mulan river, and was originally a salt flat for drying sea-salt. Yakou was a minor transshipment harbor. Hanjiang city is nearby to the north. This area was part of the Mudou xihupu 墓兜西湖铺 (police/ defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. The two villages of Guanxiekou 官泄口 (also called Mudou 墓兜, and now called Wujiao 梧郊) and Guanhou 宫后 were settled in the Ming. In the Qing, the villages of Yakou 衙口 and Yantian 盐田 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Shangwu 上梧 and Jiangwei Administrative Villages 江尾二行政村. The local temple ritual system is primarily organized according to current settlements into a three village ritual alliance. The Fuyugong 浮屿宫 temple, located in Wujiao 梧郊 village, is the main temple of the three temple alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. It is said that formerly the goddess was taken on processions to the villages of the alliance on irregular occasions, but these collective processions have not been revived. This temple preserves the stele composed in Jingding 4 (1263) entitled 浮屿宫石桥题刻 (Carved inscription on the stone bridge of the Fuyu Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:48, No. 43). Historically, the Wu 吴 lineage of Mudou 墓兜 were a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. Over the course of the Ming dynasty, they produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eleven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Wujiao 梧郊 and Lantian 蓝田 were part of the white banner alliance, while Yakou 牙口 was part of the black banner alliance. 
V404 Wujiao 梧郊 1. Village settlement Wujiao was originally called Mudou 墓兜 or Guanxiekou 官泄口 Wujiao includs the original Gonghou village 宫后 and belonged to the Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood, like that of Shangyu 上俞, is the making of doufu 豆腐. It is said that Yakou 牙口 on the river used to be a port for boats coming in from the sea, and that Wujiao was a customs station, and that the village developed around the station. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 is the dominant surname groups with around 500 people. The Wu 吴 are next largest with over 200 people. There are also other households surnamed Liu 刘, Ye 叶, Zhan 詹 and Xie 谢, etc. The Li 李 probably moved to the village in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). They are now divided into four branches, the Fu 福, Lu 禄, Shou 寿 and Houzhi 后置房 branches. The Fu branch is largest with over 200 people, and each of the other branches has about one hundred members. There used to be a lineage hall. They have no lineage genealogies or ancestral worship registers. The ancestral graves are behind the Houlian mountains in Wutang but they have already been abandoned, and villagers no longer can find their location. 3. Village temples 1) Wujiaojing Wujiao lishê 梧郊境梧郊里社 was built in the early Ming and restored in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baihe dayuanshuai 白和大元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Huye 虎爷. 2) Fuyu zumiao 浮屿祖庙 is linked to the Chongxing lishê 重兴里社. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Lingong yuanshuai 林公元帅. 3) Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 is owned by the surname group of the Li 李. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Chiqiaoan 赤桥庵 was built at the end of the Ming, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Fuhuitang 福会堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 6) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Chongxing lishê 重兴里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Wujiao lishê 梧郊里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 Chongxing lishê 重兴里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. On 1/20 Wujiao lishê 梧郊里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. On 1/24 Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/19: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Rituals groups Two spirit mediums spontaneously go into trance upon hearing the drums and gongs. The spirit mediums sometime skewer their flesh with metal needles. When possessed, the spirit mediums can transmit the god’s messages through spirit writing, using the planchette. They can answer questions and predict the future. The organizers of the ritual celebrations are the village elders who are selected annually by rotation. They invite three Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. Xiayuan pudu 下元 普度 usually takes place a few days after winter solstice on a day determined by divination. Mulian opera 目连戏 is performed using marionettes. 
V405 Lantian 蓝田 1. Village settlement Lantian village was originally called Yantian 盐田 and belonged to the Jiangwei Administrative Village 江尾行政村. The village of Lantian has over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. The village belonged to the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 surname group is by far the dominant one in the village. They are related to the Wu of Zhoudun 周墩吴. The Wu lineage has divided into four branches. There is no ancestral hall, but there are two ancestral houses, where, in addition to the ancestors, are worshipped Guanyinfo 观音佛 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3. Village temples 1) Lantianjing Xinganshê 蓝田境兴安社 was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Jinbao sheren 金宝舍人, Zhao wuye 赵五爷 and Zhang siye 张四爷. 2) Longtiantang 龙田堂 is dedicated to Sanyi xiansheng 三一先生. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 spirit mediums 神童 carry the incense burner of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 in a procession. On 1/13 a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 6/12: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Sometimes a single Daoist master is invited to recite scriptures. These events are organized by the 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals groups The following gods of the Lantian lishê 蓝田里社 descend to possess spirit mediums: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 Each year divination blocks are cast to determine the presiding god 主坛神. At Yuanxiao the spirit mediums perform exorcistic dances 行傩. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. Thy invite Daoist masters 道士 to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. The Chiqiaoan 赤桥庵 Buddhist nunnery is collectively owned by Jiangwei 江尾, Yantian 盐田, Duxia 度下 and Wujiao 梧郊. It is run by Buddhist nuns, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is worshipped there. 
V406 Yakou 牙口 1. Village settlement Yakou village is a part of Jiangwei Administrative Village 江尾行政村. The population is over 300 people. Formerly the main livelihood was from brokerages. Nowadays, the main source of income is the sale of ritual offerings and spirit money. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the dominant surname group by far. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and are related to the Chen of Chenqiao 陈桥. 3. Village temples 1) Yajiangjing aojiang xishê 牙江境鳌江西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Yonganmiao 永安庙 is known as the Tanhufu 探花府 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. On 1/20, the spirit mediums of all the black banner alliance villages are invited to pick flower-flames 神童采花. (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of a Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, and opera is performed for two days while Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days while Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. All these events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
A089 Shangyu qijing (Shangyu sevenfold ritual alliance) 上俞七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Shangyu is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白 塘 湖. This area was part of the Shangyu dukoupu 上俞度口铺 (police/ defense unit) and the Zhijie dachengpu 直街大埕铺 of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the two villages of Shangyu 上俞 and Daxicheng 大西埕 were already settled. In the Qing, the villages of Dukou 度口 (also known as Houting 后亭) separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Shangyu 上梧 and the Jikui Administrative Villages 集奎二行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to shê-altars and temples into seven ritual territories. The Yinfugong 迎福宫 temple, located in Shangyu 上俞 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the god would be taken in a procession to each of the villages of the alliance. These collective processions have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Shangyu sevenfold alliance was part of the white banner alliance. 
V407 Shangyu 上俞 1. Village settlement Shangyu village is a part of Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The population of Shangyu village is over 1000 people. The main surnames are Yu 俞 and Yu 喻. There are also the Jiang 蒋, Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, and Chen 陈 minor surnames. The main livelihood is doufu making, supplemented by leaving the village to work in construction. There are Tongzhi and Republican period stelae about bridge construction preserved in the village. 2. Surname groups The Yu 俞 are the main surname group, with seventy households 70 and over 300 people. The next largest surname group is the Yu 喻, which has over 158 people. The Yu 俞 moved to Shangyu from Tutou near Putian 莆田土头. They are divided into two branches: the Dong (east) 东, and Xi (west) 西 lineage branches. The Eastern branch has approximately 176 people living in forty-eight households, while the Western branch has over 210 people living in forty-six households. There is a general ancestral temple which is now the Village Elders Association. The Western branch originally had an ancestral hall but it has been torn down. The Jiang 蒋 about forty-six households and 174 people. The other surname groups total seventy-four households with 401 people in all, and include Liu 刘, Zheng 郑, Dai 戴 and Chen 陈 surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Yuxijing Yingfushê 榆溪境迎福社 is linked to the Yingfugong 迎福宫. Legend has it that when Zheng Chenggong 郑成功 was attacking Taiwan, his troops tore down the temple to build boats for the invasion. Later a Yinfugong temple 迎福宫 was built in Taiwan. The temple in Shangyu village was rebuilt recently. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xiehu jiangjun 协虎将军, and the Sida jingang 四大金刚. 2) Yingfusi 迎福寺 was originally the temple used for praying for rain by twenty-four surrounding villages 求雨寺. The main gods are Rulai fozu 如 来佛祖. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. 3) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 contains the altar of the Shoufushê 受福社 originally belonged to the miscellaneous minor surname groups. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 Secondary gods include Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Xifu zushê 西福祖社 belongs to the Dai 戴. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Xixingshê 西兴社 belongs to the Jiang 蒋. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 6) Shuangchengtang 双成堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Weituo 韦陀. 7) Huilinting 慧林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Shudeci 树德祠 is dedicated to Caigong 蔡公, Taixupuming 太虚普明, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This temple belongs to the Guanmenjiao 关门教. 9) Zhengxingtan 正兴坛 is inside the Yongfu temple 永福寺: The main god is 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the Yu 俞 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18 the general Yuanxiao is held, and spirit mediums lead a procession around the village boundaries. At night they perform fire-walking rites. Formerly, Shangyu village would go on a joint procession at this time with the other villages in its while banner alliance, including Shangwu 上梧, Houting 后亭, Nancheng 南埕, and Yanning 延宁. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixingshê 西兴社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Jiang 蒋. 8/6: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Yu 喻. 8/7: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Yu 俞. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. 9/23: The celebration of the Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of the Huilinting 慧林亭 is held and opera is performed for two days. Five spirit mediums perform a fire-walking ritual. 10/8: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shoufushê 受福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the miscellaneous minor surname groups. 10/23: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xifushê 西福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Dai 戴. 5. Rituals groups There are spirit mediums in Shangyu who have a tanban 坛班 altar association. They can transmit spirit writing by planchette 扶乩. There is however no guanjie 关戒 formal spirit medium training. Each year the different surname groups select by rotation ten Fushou 福首. On 10/15, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. These rites are organized and conducted by the village Three in One temple, the Shuangchengtang 双成堂. 8/1: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixingshê 西兴社 is held and opera is performed for two days. Th is event is organized by the Jiang 蒋. 8/6: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. Th is event is organized by the Yu 喻. 8/7: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. Th is event is organized by the Yu 俞. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. 9/23: The celebration of the Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of the Huilinting 慧林亭 is held and opera is performed for two days. Five spirit mediums perform a fire-walking ritual. 10/8: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shoufushê 受福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. Th is is organized by the miscellaneous minor surname groups. 10/23: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xifushê 西福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. Th is event is organized by the Dai 戴. 5. Ritual groups There are spirit mediums in Shangyu who have a tanban 坛班 altar association. Th ey can transmit spirit writing by planchette 扶乩. There is however no guanjie 关戒 formal spirit medium training. Each year the diff erent surname groups select by rotation ten Fushou 福首. On 10/15, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. These rites are organized and conducted by the village Th ree in One temple, the Shuangchengtang 双成堂.
V408 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting village was originally called Dukou 度口. Houting belongs to the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The population of Houting village is over 700 people. The main livelihoods are construction labor and transshipment of goods. 2. Surname groups The village has four main surname groups: the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Wu 吴. The Zhou have over 200 people, the Chen have 150, and the Li have over 130. It is said that the Zhou moved to Houting from Qingzhong in Huangshi 黄石清中. They are now into their seventh generation in the village, and are divided into two branches, with the most people in the first branch. The Li moved to Houting from Yangwei 洋尾 and are now into their fifth or sixth generation. The Chen have divided into three branches, which came to Houting from different places. The first branch came form Kuokou 阔口, the second branch came from Chenqiao 陈桥, and the third branch came from Moshang in the area beyond the coastal evacuations 界外磨上. 3. Village temples 1) Dutoujing Yingfushê 渡头境迎福社 is linked to the Yingfumiao 迎福庙. The temple was recently rebuilt. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府 大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Xinxingtan 新兴坛 is commonly called the Tanhuafu 探花府, and was built in the Qianlong 24 (1759). The temple is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 there is a procession around the boundaries of the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Daoist masters are summoned to hold jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 8/13: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Rituals Groups Each year twelve Fushou 福首 are selected according to surname groups. The Chen 陈 select eight, the Li 李 select two, and the Zhou 周 select one. At the end of the 10th lunar month or early in the 11th the Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by a single ritual master. 
V409 Daicheng 岱埕 1. Village settlement Daicheng was originally called Daxicheng 大西埕 or Dacheng 大埕. Daicheng is a part of the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The village of Daicheng has a population of over 1600 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, the Xinyishê 新义社 and the Yingfushê 迎福社. 2. Surname groups There are many surname groups in the village, including the Yan 严, the Huang 黄, the Kang 康, the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, the Lu 陆, the Xu 徐, and the Lin 林. The Yan 严 make up one fifth of the vil lage population. The ancestors of the Yan lineage were boat builders 福清 光阴. They first worked in Hankou 涵口 painting boats, and later settled in Daicheng, where they have been for seven generations. The Yan have an ancestral hall in Fuqing county in the village of Guangyin 福清光阴, and there they also preserve a lineage genealogy. The Huang have between 300 and 400 people. Their origins are in Huangxia 黄霞. The Zheng 郑 have few households, but they nevertheless have an ancestral hall 祠堂 where they perform collective rites of worship to their founding ancestor and his spouse 合祭公婆. 3. Village temples 1) Taishijing Xinyishê 太师境新义社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Bai daren 白大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qixing furen 七星夫人, Wang daye 王大爷, and Shiwupo 十五婆. 2) Xilaiting 西来亭 contains the altar of the Yingfushê 迎福社. The main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jin daren 金大人, and Bai daren 白大人. 3) Sanchaogong 三潮宫 is dedicated to Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Secondary gods include Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Wang zhongjun 王中军. 4) Yaoguangci 瑶光祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 44 initiates. 5) Rulintang 儒林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 26 initiates. 6) Shundetang 顺德堂 (涵江岱埕) is dedicated to Tudigong 土地公. 7) Hunyuandian 混元殿 is located in Hanjiang daicheng 涵江岱埕. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the Yan 严 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10 the Huang 黄 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 Mountain to request incense fire from Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝香火. Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 possess spirit mediums who go on a procession through the village. Daoist ritual masters from Duotou 哆头 are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/29: The celebration of Bai daren 白大人. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Jin daren 金大人. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinyishê 新义社. 9/15: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. A procession is made to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 Mountain to request incense fire and opera is performed for three days. 10/17: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The Fushou are selected by rotation according to age each year. The village has spirit mediums who during Yuanxiao perform exorcistic dances 行傩. The Sanchaogong 三潮宫 has spirit writing sessions 扶乩. The Yaoguangci 瑶光祠 performs Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance. 6/19: 6/24: 7/25: 7/24: 8/4: 
A090 Xihu ercun (Xihu two village ritual alliance) 西湖二村 The two village ritual alliance of Xihu is located between the Central main channel 延寿陂中大沟 and the Northern main channel 延寿陂北大沟 of the Yanshou irrigation system, and rests alongside the Baitang 白塘 Lake. This region also has the Xihu sluice-gate 西湖斗门, which empties freshwater from the Yanshou river into the tidal river mouth of the Mulan 木兰 river. This area was part of the Mudou Xihupu 墓兜西湖铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili (sub-canton) 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Xihu 西湖 was already settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Duxia 度下 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Jikui 集奎 and Shangwu 上梧 Administrative Villages. The temple ritual system holds each village to be autonomous, but nevertheless each year on lunar 5/13 the two villages hold a collective dragon boat race and ritual. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the two villages of Xihu were part of the black banner alliance. 
V410 Xihu 西湖 1. Village settlement Xihu village belongs to the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The population of the Jikui is over 400 people. The main livelihood is slaughtering pigs and construction work. 2. Surname groups The village has the following surnames: the Wang 王, the Yu 俞, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, and the Zhang 张. The Wang make up about one third of the total population. It is said that the original settler of the village was surnamed Yu俞, and that he had been a district magistrate in Putian but that he had originally been from near Xihu 西湖 (West Lake) in Hangzhou 杭州. When he grew old and decided to retire, he placed a husk of grain into the waters of the Beiyang 北洋 irrigation system and followed it as it floated to the site of the village where it stopped in a place of excellent geomantic properties. The official settled there and named it Xihu village. Thus the Yu were the founders of the village, and they once had an ancestral hall which has since collapsed. All the temples of the village were built by the Yu and all the land was originally theirs as well. The Wangs 王 came to Xihu from Pinghai 平海. The first to come were two brothers, but now there have been six generations of the Wangs in the village. They are divided into two branches. The Dafang 大房 has over forty households, while the Xiao 小房 (small) branch has only two or three. The Zhang 张 have over ten households, and came from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 are all minor surnames, who have to depend on the bigger surnames when dealing with outsiders. Some have even changed their surnames to Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Xihujing Taipingshê 西湖境太平社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Peng jiangjun 彭将军. 2) Chengzhongtang 诚忠堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 34 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the village holds a general Yuanxiao festival, and invites Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 513: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. There is dragon boat racing and opera is performed for five to six days, while movies are shown for over ten days. 6/18: The celebration of Peng jiangjun 彭将军 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/16: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Rituals groups There are over ten spirit mediums in the village but they have not received any special training. Each year the Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 
V411 Duxia 度下 1. Village settlement Duxia natural village belongs to the Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The village population is over 500 people. Duxia village is divided into two neighborhoods called Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. The main livelihood is handicrafts based in bamboo made for export. 2. Surname groups The Zhan 詹 make up 80% of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Lin 林. The Zhan lineage is divided into six branches, and the third branch has the most people, with around 150. There is a Zhan ancestral hall, but there is no lineage genealogy. The Lin are said to have come from Chizhu 赤柱 in Putian 莆田 city. 3. Village temples 1) Xitingjing Chenglongshê 西亭境乘龙社 is connected to the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baima xianggong 白马相公, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Zhichengtang 志诚堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Xiao daye 肖大爷. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records seven initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Qiandun 前墩 takes the gods on procession and seals the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/15 Houdun 后墩 takes the gods on procession and seals the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals groups The village has spirit medium 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩, but there is no specialized collective training for spirit mediums 关戒. Whoever hears the bells and drums and becomes possessed is the spirit medium. Each year two people are selected in rotation on the basis of age to be Fushou 福首. Just before the winter solstice 冬至 the divination blocks are consulted to select the day for the Lanpen rites 兰盆 (xiayuan pudu 下元普渡). A minority of the village population are Christians. Each year on 5/13 there are dragon boat races held with Xihu 西湖 village. 
A091 Jilui sijia (Jikui four jia ritual alliance) 集奎四甲 
V412 Jikui 集奎 1. Village settlement Jikui is also called Zhijie 直街. Jikui village is located alongside the Beitang Lake 白塘湖畔. This area was part of the Zhijie dacheng pu 直街大埕铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Qiaonan 桥南 was settled in this area. The current population of Jikui village is approximately 1100 people, and it is managed by the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to neighborhood settlements into four jia ritual associations: Houcuo 后厝, Hougang 后港, Shangjie上街, and Xiajie下街. The main livelihood is rope making and working in factories. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four jia of Jikui were part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups It is said that the original inhabitants of Jikui village were the Kang 康, but nowadays the Zeng 曾 surname group is dominant, with about 50% of the village population. Other important surnames are the Shen 沈 and the Zheng 郑. The Zeng 曾 moved to the village from Huian 惠安 in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). At that time there were two brothers who were fishermen. Their boat sank off the coast of Putian 莆田 and they washed up on shore in Hanjiang 涵江. That night they stayed in a temple in Jikui 集奎 and the god Hei daren 黑大人 came to the brothers in a dream and told them to make fishing hooks for a living. Later their fish hooks became famous and people came to buy them by the boatload. The older brother never married, but the younger brother married and had three sons, who founded three branches of the lineage named Tian 天 (heaven), Di 地 (earth), and ren 仁 (humanity). Now the Zeng are the largest lineage in the village and have reached their tenth generation. Originally they had four ancestral halls, as well as some old ancestral chambers. Currently there are still two ancestral halls. Once they had a lineage genealogy. The ancestral tombs are in the Jiuhua mountains. 3. Village temples 1) Jikuijing Longtou lishê 集奎境龙头里社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baigong daren 白公大人, Heigong daren 黑公大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sihai longwang 四海龙王, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Chouliang dawang 臭梁大王, Liang shengwang 量圣君. 2) Gongdeci 功德祠 is said to have been built in the Song. It was re-dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 in the Ming. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Huibai cishi 慧白慈师 (this monk gained merit (which is the name of the temple) when he rebuilt the temple after it was destroyed by pirates in the Ming), Leishen Puhua tianzun 雷身 普化天尊, Weituoo 韦陀, Zhao Gaoming 赵公明, Lu Wenhui 卢文辉, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, Lin Zhenming 林贞明, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Chen Zhida 陈智达, and Liang Puyao 梁普耀. This temple preserves a stele composed in Wanli 16 (1588) entitled 重修涵江新桥记 (Record of the restoration of the New Bridge in Hanjiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:183, No. 161). The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 371 initiates. 3) Longjiangtan 龙江坛 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5) Longxingmiao 龙兴庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军and Wu daren 乌大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 and Hei daren 黑大人 are taken out on a procession around the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The celebration of Hei daren 黑大人. 9/15: The celebration of Sihai longwang 四海龙王. 10/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals groups The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation on the basis of age. There are four or five spirit mediums, but possession is spontaneous and never a sure thing. Once the drums and the chimes sound whoever becomes possessed is the spirit medium. 
A092 Hougong erjia (Hougong two jia ritual alliance) 后宫二甲 Hougong is also called Houliugong 后刘宫 and Houtou 后头. The village is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Houliugong Xiacaipu 后刘宫下蔡舖 of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Qing, the village of Houliugong was settled, and it has now divided into two large settlements called Hougong 后宫 and Houxue 后学. Both are managed by the Hougong Administrative Village 后宫行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to settlements into two jia ritual associations. The Dunangong 度南宫 temple, located in Houxue 后学 village, is the main temple of the two jia ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 1/16 a general Yuanxiao fesitval is held, and the two jia join in a common procession of the gods of the temple. 
V413 Hougong 后宫 1. Village settlement The village of Hougong has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is construction work in cement, carpentry, and scrap metal. 2. Surname groups The main surmane groups are the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Cheng 程. The Huang make up the majority of the population, with over 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Taixingtang 太兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Dunangong 度南 宫 are invited on a procession through Hougong village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Hougong village, together with Houxue village 后学, celebrate the end of the Yuanxiao festival. They invite the spirit mediums of Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 to go into trance and go on procession through their villages, and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 
V414 Houxue 后学 1. Village settlement The village of Houxue has a population of approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is overseeing construction projects. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Huang 黄. The Huang moved to Houxue in the Wanli period (1573–1620) from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江. According to legend, there were five brothers who opened a school in the village. Early on, the lineage divided into two branches, and now there are six branches, namely the first branch 头房 or Fu 福, the second branch 二房 Shou 寿, the third branch 三房 Ji 吉, and the fourth, fifth, and sixth branches. The Ji branch (third) is the largest with over 400 people. Originally there were three lineage halls in the village, but now only one survives. Formerly there were lineage genealogies 族谱 and worship registers 祭薄, but these are all gone. 3. Village temples 1) Dunangong 度南宫 contains the altars of the Qinganshê 庆安社 and the Qingfushê 庆福社. The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Tuzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (Lu Ban 鲁班) . 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Dunangong 度南宫 are invited on a procession through Hougong village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Houxue village, together with Hougong village 后宫, celebrate the end of the Yuanxiao festival. They invite the spirit mediums of Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 to go into trance and go on procession through their villages, and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Rituals groups Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 each has a single spirit medium who organizes the Yuanxiao procession, and the tanban 坛班 altar association. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to host the rituals of the year. 
A093 Donting sijia (Dongting four jia ritual alliance) 东亭四甲 
V415 Dongting 东亭 1. Village settlement Dongting is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Xiliugong Xiacaipu 西刘宫下蔡铺 (police/ defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Qing, the two villages of Xiacai 下蔡 and Dongting 东亭 were settled in this area. Today they have merged into a single village, with a population of approximately 700. Dongting is part of the Hougong Administrative Village 后宫行政村. The temple ritual Dongting four jia ritual alliance system is divided on the basis of settlement or neighborhoods into four jia 四甲 ritual associations: Houdun 后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houcuo 后厝, and Qiancuo 前厝. The main livelihood comes from working in construction. 2. Surname groups The Cai 蔡 are the main surname groups, with over 300 people. There are also the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Xie 解 surname groups. The Cai moved to Dongting from Linchuan 灵川 and have divided into three lineage branches, of which the third has the most people. There is a Cai ancestral hall and on regular occasions joint worship of the ancestors takes place there. 3. Village temples 1) Dongtingjing Xixingshê 东亭境西兴社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xinglingdian 兴灵殿 was rebuilt in Qianlong 20 (1755). The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Shuaifu Shidaren 帅府 士大人, Duchayuan Gouyushi 都察院苟御史, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, and Fanghuo dadi 放火大帝. 3) Zhuchan shuyuan 珠缠书院 was restored in Daoguang 11 (1831). The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗 星君. 4) Damafu 大妈府 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 5) Sanjiaoci 三教祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Fotang 佛堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the gods of the Xinglingdian 兴灵殿 on a procession around the village boundaries. On 1/17 the gods of the Xixingshê 西兴社 on a procession around the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. 2/3: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration of Shi daren 士大人 is organized by Houdun 后墩. Opera is performed for two days. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and earth 天地 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 7/7: The celebration of Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 7/15: The celebration of Gou yushi 苟御史 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Houdun 后墩. Opera is performed for two days. 8/21: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 9/4: The celebration of Fanghuo dadi 放火大帝 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. Opera is performed for two days. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The celebration of Tianjie guniang 天界姑娘 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. 5. Rituals groups There is one older spirit medium 神童 and four new mediums. They are trained in guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions, which have been held twice, each time for two or three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to these rituals. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation. 5/15: 
A094 Yangwei liucun (Yangwei six-village ritual alliance) 洋尾六村 The six village alliance of Yangwei is located along the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Yangwei Tangbianpu 洋尾塘边舖 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming the village of Yangwei 洋尾 was settled, and in the Qing the village of Tangbian 塘边 separated off. Currently there are a total of six natural villages in this area: Dongdun 东墩, Lijiao 李角, Xidun 西墩, Houtou 后头, Tangbian 塘边, and Xilin 西林, all of which are managed by the Yangwei Administrative Village 洋尾行政村. The overall population of the ritual alliance is over 3000 people. The Youshengguan 佑圣堂 temple of Dongdu 东墩 village, and the Lingzhengong 灵镇宫 of Lijiao 李角 village, are the main temples of the six-village alliance. Each year on lunar 1/26, Xuantian shangdi of Youshengguan 佑圣堂玄天上帝 and Yanggong taishi of Lingzhengong 灵镇宫杨公太师 are carried in a procession through the six villages of the alliance. Every ten years, on a day determined by divination, Xuantian shangdi is taken on a procession around the villages bordering the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. 1. Youshengtang 佑圣堂: According to the Li lineage genealogy 李氏族谱, this temple was originally a Buddhist hall built in Ming Hongwu 5 (1372) by Third place examination winner Huang Yang 黄阳. In Hongwu 24 (1391), a District Magistrate Li, who had served in Yongzhuo Prefecture Qiyang district 永州府祁阳县令李龙公 brought back the statue of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 from that district to Putian 莆田 and worshipped it in the Youshengtang. He also donated land to the temple and expanded the building, so that the god and the Buddha could both dwell in the same place. According to another legend the god statue was lodged in the Buddha hall temporarily while an ancestral hall was being built, but once the new hall was ready, the god refused to move, and so stayed alongside the Buddha. During the Movement to Destroy the Four Olds the temple was demolished. In 1970 it was rebuilt. On the main altar there are Rulaifo 如来佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and in the lower altar in the central hall are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. In the left hand hall are Yuanshu 元暑 and Weituo 韦陀; in the right hand hall are Puxing 普行 and Jialan 伽蓝. On both sides in additional halls are the Eighteen Luohan 罗汉. In a hall further to the left is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. In a hall to the far right is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tuzhu mingwang 土主明王. The processions of the Youshengtan 佑圣堂巡游仪式: Each year on 1/26, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 goes on a procession through the six-fold ritual alliance 巡游六境. Every ten years in the 10th lunar month the god is carried in an special procession through the six-fold ritual alliance. The god’s birthday celebrations are held on lunar 3/3 and opera is performed for three days. This event is organized by the Temple Management Committee, and funds are raised from the entire six-village alliance on a per capita basis. Lingzhengong 灵镇宫 was rebuilt in 1983. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫 人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and to the right are the Sanshiliu gongpo 三十六 宫婆. In the front of the temple are Daye 大爷 and Tudigong 土地神. The processions of the Lingzhengong: Each lunar 1/26, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师 and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 go on a procession through the six village alliance 巡游六境. Birthday celebrations of the gods: 4/26 is the celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师; 5/5 is the celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神; 7/7 is the celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and 8/21 is the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for three days. These events are organized by the temple management committee, and fund are raised from the six village alliance on a per capita basis. Historically, the Li lineage of Yangwei village 洋尾李氏were a prominent local lineage with many successful examination graduates. In the Ming, they produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twelve Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 22 (1486), the Regional Inspector巡按御史 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial arch in honor of the Li lineage 李 in Yangwei village. In Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Buyun 步云牌坊 (Pacing the Clouds) memorial archway to further honor the Li lineage 李. Finally in Ming Hongshi 12 (1499) the Li themselves erected a memorial archway inscribed with Zhigan Yufang 制 干余芳 (continuing fragrance of Li Zhigan 李制干). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the six villages of Yangwei were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V416 Dongdun 东墩 1. Village settlement Dongdun village was once a tidal flat. In the Song, Li Zhigan 李制干 built dikes around this area and reclaimed the land from the sea. Currently the village has a population of over 922 people. Dongdun village is divided into Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝 and Qiaotoujiao 桥头 角 neighborhoods. The main livelihood is farming. Many villagers work in construction and carpentry. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the major surname group. There are also over 100 people surnamed Lin 林. There are also some minor surnames including the Sun 孙, Yang 杨, Tian 田, Dai 戴, Yu 俞, Xie 谢 and the Guan关. The Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞, and now have over 1300 people. The Huang lineage was founded by Ancestor Lanting 兰亭公 who is said to have had six sons. One moved away to Huangshi and those that stayed on in Yangwei divided into five lineage branches. The Huang live mostly in the three villages of Dongdun 东墩, Xidun 西墩 and Xilin 西林. The Huang lineage ancestral hall 黄氏大祠堂 was converted into a school during the Republican period. The other lineage branch ancestral halls have also fallen down or been taken over as production brigade headquarters. The ancestral tombs are in Huangxia 黄霞. The Lin 林 came from Xiake下柯 near Putian 莆田 and have 26 households in the village. They are divided into two lineage branches and there is a ancestral house that is kept up by both branches. At Yuanxiao the entire lineage gathers there to worship their ancestors. There is also the Lizhiganci (Shrine) 李制干祠 in Dongdun 东墩, which was first built in the Southern Song, and was rebuilt in the Ming, and which covers 380 sq. meters. This shrine is a Putian City cultural preservation site. The shrine has a plaque written by the Southern Song Jinshi Wang Jinzhi 王进之 as well as a stele composed in 1526 by the Minister of Justice Lin Jun 刑部尚书林俊 entitled 永思堂记 (Record of the Hall of Eternal Recollection) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:153, No. 131), and another stele composed by Li Tingwu 李廷梧 in Hongzhi 12 (1499) entitled 李氏重修东 墩祠记 (Record of the repairs to the Dongdun Li ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:165, No. 143). The texts of several other inscriptions concerning the Li Zhigan shrine have survived (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:17, 19, 163; No. 18, 21, 141). 3. Village temples 1) Jufushê 聚福社 is the overall main shê-altar of the Huang lineage of Yangwei 洋尾黄氏总社, and it is shared with Xilin village 西林. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On the left is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and on the right Linshui furen 临水夫人 and Chen Banye 陈班爷. 2) Dongxingmiao 东兴庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Guanfuan 观福庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Fuqingtang 福庆堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and belongs to Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. 6) Jianmingtang 建明堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 a procession is held in the village. On 1/13 palm sedan chairs with miniature statues of the gods are taken on procession 摆棕轿. On 1/9 the Huang lineage 黄氏 celebrates Yuanxiao 元宵. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the six-fold alliance management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/29: Xiayuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Formerly, as many as five or seven Daoist ritual masters were invited to conduct the rites, currently only a single Daoist master is invited. During the ritual, water lanterns are set to float from boats on the irrigation canals. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 11/2: Opera is performed for two days at the Lower Prime pudu 下元普度. 5. Rituals Groups There is one spirit medium 神童 in the village, but he is over 60 years old. The village Three in One temple is called the Zhongyitang 中一堂. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Guanfuan 观福庵, where Buddhist rites are performed, and various peoples’ spirit tablets are worshipped. 
V417 Lijiao 李角 1. Village settlement Lijiao village has a population of approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is farming, though many villagers are in the construction business. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 are the dominant surname group. Other minor surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Li 李 are the descendants of Li Zhigan 李制干, and there is a Lishi Great Lineage hall 李氏大宗祠 in the village. This hall was first built in the Ming, and was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 28 (1763). The hall covers 350 sq. meters. The hall preserves a stone inscription composed in 1489 by Minister of the Justice Peng Shao 彭韶 (from nearby Zhenjiang) entitled 白塘李氏重修先祠碑 (Stele recording the repair of the ancestral shrine of the Li lineage of Baitang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:116, No. 103); as well as another inscription from Qianlong 28 (1763) entitled 重建大宗祠碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Great Lineage hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:245, No. 211). There are other ancestral halls and shrines in the village as well, including the Zhoumuci 州牧祠, a shrine set up in the Qianlong period in honor of Vice Magistrate of Zhili Department, Li Guangwen 直隶州司马李光文. This too is a large building, covering 338 sq. meters. The shrine contains two Qianlong plaques recording imperial honors. There is also the Qiyangci 祁阳祠 built in the Ming in honor of Li Long 湖广永州府祁阳县令李龙, which covers some 200 sq. meters. The Li lineage has preserved many additional historical items, including a 1516 stele composed by Investigating Censor Zhou Xuan 监察御使清江周宣 from nearby Qingjiang village. A number of memorial archways have been preserved in the village, including a Song dynasty memorial archway in honor of Li Tingyao 李延耀佥判第坊 and two Ming dynasty memorial archways. In addition, the tomb of Li Zhigan, the 李制干墓, dating to Song Chunxi 9 (1182) and located in the Chanji Mountains of Changtai 常太镇长基山, is visited on lunar 9/11 by representatives of the Li lineage who conduct rites at the tomb. The Li lineage has preserved two genealogies, one is the 白塘李氏族谱 Baitang Lishi zupu dating to 1721; the other is a more recent edition. 3. Village temples 1) Kuilongshê 魁龙社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingzhengtan 兴正坛 is dedicated to Ou daren 欧大人. This temple was first built in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1521). The temple was rebuilt in 1994. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linzhengong 灵镇宫 are taken on a procession throughout their own village. On 1/15, there is a fire walking rite 踩火. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the sixfold alliance management committee. Five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/3: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a date determined by spirit writing and is conducted once every three years. Marionette plays are performed. 
V418 Xidun 西墩 1. Village settlement The village of Xidun has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, though many villagers are in the construction business. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the dominant surname group with 289 people. There are also a minority of Li 李 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jufu shushê 聚福书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On the left and right are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the villagers go on a procession in their own village. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the six-fold alliance management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V419 Houtou 后头 1. Village settlement Houtou village is also known as Xialou 霞楼. The village population is over 400 people living in 106 households. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. There are also seven households surnamed Gao 高, along with some households surnamed Wu 吴, Li 李, Qi 祁 and Shê 佘. The Chen are divided into two main lines, the Yingshui Chen 颍水陈 and the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈. The former line has lived in the village for over ten generations, and has divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Jiafu zushê 嘉福祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Bujintan 布金坛 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left and right are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Baigong daren 白公大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 3) Yaokun shuyuan 瑶琨书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On a day early in the ninth lunar month, as determined by divination, an Assembly of the Dao 会道 ritual is held with the participation of many nearby Three in One temples and their initiates. 4) Sanqingdian 三清殿 is located in the village. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅 is invited to the village to go on procession. Spirit mediums “pluck the flames” 神童踩火. On 1/21 opera is performed and on 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected to organize the ritual activities of the year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/17: The celebration for Baigong daren 白公大人. 8/15: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The village Three in One temple is the Yaokun shuyuan 瑶琨书院. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V420 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement The village of Tangbian has a population of 700 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. In 1939, the troops of the Nanbei Army 南北军 burned down the village as they passed through the area. The foundations of an ancestral house renowned throughout the Hanjiang area called the Sanjiancuo 三间 厝 can still be seen in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. The are also a few households surnamed Lin 林. The Chen are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian city. The Chen lineage ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 was burned down by the soldiers of the Nanbei Army. 3. Village temples 1) Sanqijing Yiqingshê 三奇境仪清社 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. To the left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the right: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人. Front altar: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Sanwei daye 三位大爷 and Erwei daye 二位二爷. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 there is a procession within the village, and the spirit mediums of neighboring villages are invited to pick flower-flames (undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of massive Roman candles) 神童采花. On 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22 and 8/24: The celebration of the gods of Hongrenci 弘仁祠. 7/16: The celebration of the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each time opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites are performed on a time determined by spirit writing 扶乩, once every three years. Marionette plays are performed. 5. Rituals Groups This village has spirit medium 神童 who can transmit the messages of the gods in spirit writing 扶乩. 
V421 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement The village of Xilin has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the main surname with around 412 people, and there are also a few Lin 林 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jufushê 聚福社 is in Dongdun 东墩, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Baolintang 宝林堂 is dedicated to Ma daren 马大人. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 there is a procession within the village. On 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The celebration of Ma daren 马大人. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The village Three in One temple is the Mingdetang 明德堂. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A095 Zhenqian qijing (Zhenqian sevenfold ritual alliance) 镇前七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhenqian is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Zhenqian xiaohupu 镇前孝户铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Song, Ninghai town 宁海镇 had already been settled in this area, and in the Ming the village of Zhenqian 镇前 was settled. In the Qing, the village of Xiaohu 孝户 separated off. Currently the villages of the area are managed by Zhenqian 镇前 and Zhenjiang Administrative Villages 镇江行政村. The temple ritual system is divided primarily according to lineage and settlement into seven ritual territories. The Fushangong 福山宫 temple and the Xinanshê 新安社, both located in Zhenqian 镇前 village, are the main temple and the founding shê-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual territories in the alliance goes to Fushangong to invite the gods to their home temples. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold alliance of Zhenqian was part of the black banner alliance. 
V422 Zhenqian 镇前 1. Village settlement The village of Zhenhai has a population of over 3000 people. The village is divided into several neighborhoods, including Dalu Zhengqian sevenfold ritual alliance 大路, Qianshê 前社, Jiangtouwei 江头尾, Qiaotou 桥头, etc. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surnames groups are the Shê 佘, the Lin 林, the Li 李, the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Weng 翁, and the Fang 方. The Shê 佘 make up almost half the total population. It is said the ancestor of the Shê in Zhenqiao 镇前 had been en route to taking up a position as district magistrate in Chaozhou 潮州知府 when his second son fell ill. He stayed at Shêpu in Hangjiang 涵江佘埔. The third generation of the Shê then moved to Zhenhai. By now, the Shê have reached their 21st generation and have an overall population of nearly 3000 people. There is a great lineage hall and several branch lineage halls. The ancestral graves are in Shangshepu 上佘铺 and each year at the Chongyang (9/9) festival the graves are swept. Other groups of the Shê lineage in Jiangkou Gangxia 江口港下 and Xitianwei Houzhuo 西天尾后卓 go separately to sweep the tombs at Qingming 清明 and at Dongzhi 冬至. The village also has a Wu Lineage ancestral hall. A stone inscription composed in Hongzhi 15 (1502) entitled 圣墩吴氏新建祠堂记 (Record of the newly constructed Wu ancestral hall at Sacred Mound) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:131, No. 112) is about this hall. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenqianjing Fushangong 镇前境福山宫 contains the altar of the Xinanshê 新安社 and is the main temple 总宫 and founding shê altar 祖社 of the three village alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Huye 虎爷, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 2) Zhenqianjing Daxishê 镇前境大西社 is connected to the Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙 and includes the Wuxiangong 五显宫, the Tianhougong 天后宫, and the Jiuchenggong 九成宫. This temple is in Dalu 大路 and was recently rebuilt. The complex includes four temples in a row. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Guangzhou pingwang 广周平王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Hu taibao 胡太保, Yang taibao 杨太保, Bihou daifu 毕侯大夫, and Zhou daye 周大爷. 3) Hongmingdian 宏明殿 is in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 and branched off from Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙. The main god is Guangzhou pingwang 广周平王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Hu taibao 胡太保 and Yang taibao 杨太保. 4) Longxingtan 隆兴坛 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Huang Cang 黄仓, and Bai Cang 白仓. 5) Yunlong shuyuan 云龙书院 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 6) Jiwutang 集午堂 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 was built in Daoguang 12 (1832), and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lu Wenhui 卢文辉, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Hufa jialan 护法伽蓝. 7) Hongrendong 弘仁洞 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Chen Hong haier 陈洪孩儿. 8) Yunyuelou 云月楼 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮and Jialan 伽蓝. 9) Changshoutang 长寿堂 includes the altars of the Xinanshê 新安社, the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Zaiqianshê 在前社. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Jiazi xingjun 甲子星君, Gonggong daren 龚公大人, Peng daye 彭太爷, Zou jiangjun 邹将军. 10) Yanshoutang 延寿堂 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 and Cai daye 蔡大爷. 11) Jurendong 居仁洞 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷 and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Zuoyou erye 左右二爷. 12) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三 一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992: 9 records forty initiates. 13) Hongshanci 弘善祠 in Qiaotou 桥头 has a Yandun yizhong 烟墩义塚 (tomb of the righteous heroes). The temple is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大 爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Chen Hong haier 陈洪孩儿. 14) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 9 records seven initiates. 15) Jiangxiang temple 吉祥寺 was located north of the Ninghai bridge. It was originally attached to the Ninghai bridge and was built in Yuan Yuantong 2 (1334). In Ming Jianwen 2 (1400) Buddist monk Xiangjiang 湘江 rebuilt the temple. The temple was rebuilt again in 1979 (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Yao 姚 take the incense burners of the Xinganshê 兴安社 and the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11 the Dalu 大路 Daxishê 大西社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 the Zheng 郑 of Qianshê 前社 and the Lin 林 of Xingyishê 兴义社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Weng of Zushê 翁姓祖社 and the community of Xizhoushê 西周社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Shê of Sanzhou 三洲佘姓 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22 a general Yuanxiao festival is held in Qianshê 前社, and the spirit mediums 神童 of Changshoutang 长寿堂 are invited to go on a procession around the borders of the community and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/24, the spirit mediums 神童 of Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙 are invited to do the same. On 2/3–4 the Hongmingdian 宏明殿 of Jiangtouwei 江头尾 invites all the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to caihua “pick flower-flames 采花” (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of a Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Villagers request incense fire 香火 from Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong mountain. This is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 2/22: The celebration of Li daye 李大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 3/15: The celebration of Xie daye 谢大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by Dalu 大路. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dalu 大路. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 5/5: The celebration of Wuxian dashen 五显大帝 is organized by Dalu 大路; the celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 6/6: The celebration of Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized separately by Jiangtouwei 江头尾 and Qianshê 前社. 8/23: The celebration of Gong daren 龚大人 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 10/15: The celebration of Huang daye 黄大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 10/19: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Daxishê 大西社 is organized by Dalu 大路. 10/21: The celebration of Jianzi xingjun 甲子星君 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 5. Rituals Groups Zhenqian has a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and assistants, but does not conduct guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. On 10/15, Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed separately by Three in One Scripture Masters and initiates of the Hongrendong 弘仁洞, Hongshanci 弘善祠, and the Jurendong 居仁洞. 
V423 Zhenjiang 镇江 1. Village settlement The village of Zhenjiang has a population of over 3000 people. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qihangqian 棋行前, Dongzhijiao 东至角, and Zhanghuang 张黄. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shê 佘, the Zhang 张, and the Huang 黄. The Shê make up about half of the village population, and are related to the Shê of Zhenhai 镇海. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenjiangjing Shoushangong 镇江境寿山宫 contains the altar of the Fushoushê 福寿社 and is located in Dongzhijiao 东至角. This temple branched off from the main Fushangong 福山宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuhu jialou 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Ma jiangjun 马将军, Jia jiangjun 贾将军, Xiehu dajiang 谢虎大将, and Hongrendong sanwei daye 弘仁洞三位大爷. 2) Zhenjiangjing Lianzhongdong 镇江境莲中洞 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and was built in Guangxu 32 (1906). This temple is said to be the overall main temple for the black banner village alliance of the Hanjiang area 涵江 乌旗总宫. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Leisheng Puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng daye 彭大爷, and Deng daye 邓大爷. 3) Dexingtan 德兴坛 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhou daye 周大爷, Peng daye 彭大爷, and Deng daye 邓大爷. 4) Sanzhou shuyuan 三洲书院 contains the Fushou shushê 福寿书社 and belongs to the Zhang 张. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 5) Xianyuelou 先月楼 is in Dongzhijiao 东至角 and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is in Dongzhijiao 东至角 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7) Longxingdong 隆兴洞 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Huang cang 黄仓, and Bai cang 白仓. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 the Zhang 张 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Huang 黄 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Shê of Sanzhoushê 三洲社佘姓 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 Qihangqiang 棋行前 invites Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on a procession around the village boundaries. On 1/23 Dongzhijiao 东至角 holds a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵, and invites the spirit mediums 神童 of Shoushangong 寿山宫 to go on a procession around the village boundaries, and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/27 Qihangqian’s Lianzhongdong 棋行前莲中洞 invites the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to “pick flower-flames” 神童 采花 (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles) Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/12: The celebration of Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将 is held. 1/19: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their ancestral hall. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 3/15: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their ancestral hall 祠堂. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. The celebration of Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. Each year with an intercalary seventh lunar month Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 goes on a procession through the entire ritual territory. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 10/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 is organized by the village as a whole. 10/15: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their lineage ancestral hall 祠堂. 11/4: The celebration of Xiehu dajiang 谢虎大将 is held. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups Zhenjiang village has an active tanban 坛班 altar association of some forty spirit mediums and assistants. They have carried out guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to their ages. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by Three in One scripture masters. 5/15: 
V424 Xiaohu 孝户 1. Village settlement Xiaohu village is a part of the Zhenqian Administrative Village 镇前行政村. The village of Xiaohu has a population of over 600 people. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in the village are the Cai 蔡, the Lin 林, the Li 李, and the Wu 吴. The Cai make up a third of the village population. They claim to be descendants of Cai Xiang 蔡襄 who moved to Xiaohu in the thirteenth generation. There is a Cai lineage ancestral hall 蔡氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Ningjiangjing Xinglonggong 宁江境兴隆宫 contains the altar of the Fushoushê 福寿社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taibao zhongjun 太保中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Chongxingtang 重兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Chongshengtang 崇圣堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帥. 4) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷 and Li daye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the incense burners of the shêaltar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19 the overall Yuanxiao festival is celebrated. The spirit mediums 神童 of Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 go on a procession around the village boundaries, and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Nanhu village invites the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to “pick flower-flames” 采花 (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/11: The celebration of Taibao zhongjun 太保中军. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups Xiaohu village has a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their ritual assistants, but they have never held a guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation on the basis of age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by the initiates of the Hongrenci 弘仁 祠, and funds are raised by voluntary contributions. 
A096 Nancheng sishê (Nanchang four shê ritual alliance) 南埕四社 
V425 Nancheng 南埕 1. Village settlement Nancheng is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白 塘湖. This region was part of the Nanchengpu 南埕埔 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. The area around Nancheng was originally all Nanchang four-shê ritual alliance sea-salt fields and tidal mudflats. After the construction of the Jishan dike in the Qing, 13,600 mu (over 2000 acres) of land was reclaimed from the sea, and the village gradually was settled. Currently there are some 2000 residents of the village, living in two neighborhoods, Shangdun 上墩 and Xiadun 下墩. In term of ritual organization, the village is divided by surname groups into four shê altars. The three main surnames are the Hu 胡, Cheng 程, and Weng 翁. Another group is made up of the Fang 方 and the Li 李 and other minor surnames. Each of these four groups has its own shê altar 四社. The main livelihood formerly was in the sea-salt fields but nowadays most people work in construction and virtual every family has a carpentry workshop. A minority are involved in commerce in Putian or Hanjiang 涵江. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, all of the four shê of Nancheng village were members of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three surnames of Hu 胡, Cheng 程, and Weng 翁 are the dominant surname groups but there are also several minor surname groups including the Fang 方 and the Li 李. There were originally a few Lin 林 and Zheng 郑 households but they have moved away. The Hu are the largest surname group with over 1200 people. According to legend, there was once a Jiangxi 江西 official surnamed Hu who moved to Putian to take up office, and his descendants lived in Nancheng. Later the lineage formed four branches, and the Hu are already into their twelfth generation. The second branch at some point merged with the first branch, so that there are now three lineage branches. There was originally a lineage hall, but it was torn down. The Cheng moved to Nancheng from Huangshi Zhelang village 黄石遮浪 and now have 480 descendants. They are divided into five branches. The Weng are the Liugui Weng 六桂翁氏. Their founding ancestor was Weng Chulian 翁处廉, who moved to Nancheng village from Beigao 北高. The Weng now number about 300 people, and are divided into three lineage branches. They are related to the Weng of Huangshi Qingzhong 黄 石清中, where their lineage genealogy can be consulted. The Li 李 moved to Nancheng from Yangwei 洋尾. The origins of the Fang 方 are unclear. 3. Village temples 1) Nanjiangjing Yian lishê 南江境义安里社 belongs to the Cheng 程, Weng 翁, and Hu 胡 lineages. The subsidiary branch shê-altars are the Cheng’s Yi’an zhongshê 义安中社, the Weng’s Yian dongshê 翁姓义 安东社 and the Fang’s Yiqingshê 义清社. The main gods of the Yi’an lishê 义安里社 are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 (belonging to the Weng 翁), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (belonging to the Fang 方), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (belonging to the Cheng 程) and Puji shenghou 普济圣候 (also belonging to the Cheng 程). 2) Yian xishê 义安西社 belongs to the Hu 胡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yiqingshê 义清社 belongs to the Fang 方. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Buzheng shijun 布政使君. 4) Sanzhengong 三真宫 (the overall main temple of the village 总宫) has a saying about it which goes “Before you leave Nancheng village, first go to the Sanzhen temple 三真宫”, which locals take to mean that even before the temple was built the god was already there. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 5) Nanjiangjing Xinglongtan 南江境兴隆坛 belongs to the Cheng 程 of Xiadun 下墩. Legend has it that this is the second oldest temple in Putian, and each year with an intercalary seventh month the gods of the temple go on procession throughout the village. The main gods are Tianqian shengmu 天 前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Yawen dutong dashen 押瘟都统大神, and Xiling Kongfu daren 西 岭孔府大人. 6) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xingling dashen 行令大神, Hu yuanshuai 胡元帅, Hu guniang 胡姑娘, Chen xiannü 陈仙女, Li furen 李夫人, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. 7) Xianrenci 显仁祠 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Erye 二爷 and Daye 大爷. 8) Chalitang 察理堂 is dedicated to Li daren 李大人. 9) Yingshuiting 潆水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天. 10) Yanshouge 延寿阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 11) Yumingtang 玉明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 12) Nanjiangjing Hexingtang 南江境合兴堂 belongs to the Hu of Shangdun 上墩胡 and branched off from the Beijidian 北极殿. This temple is commonly called the Tanhuafu 探花府, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wuxian Ma yuanshuai 五显马元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 13) Nanjiang shuyuan 南江书院 belongs to the entire village and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 14) Qingyundian 青云殿 belongs to the Cheng 程 and was built in the Xianfeng period (1851–1861), and rebuilt in 1997. The main god is Yuansheng yuanshuai 袁圣元帅 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 15) Tongshengtang 通圣堂 branched off in the Ming Wanli period (1573– 1620) from the Huangshi Taihuci 黄石太湖祠, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 16) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 17) Yumingtang 玉明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 18) Donglai temple 东来寺 was built in Kangxi 47 (1708) by Buddhist Monk Shenran 深然. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the Weng 翁 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and his spirit medium 神童 on a procession and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/10 the Fang 方 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the 程 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Gangong yuanshuai 干公 元帅, Wuxian yuashuai 五显元帅 and their spirit mediums in sedan chairs on a procession around the village. On 2/5 a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, organized by the Hu 胡. The spirit mediums of neighboring villages are invited to “pick flower-flames” 神童采花. (undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles). Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by the Cheng 程 and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for three days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡 and opera is performed for three days. 4/14: The celebration of Xingling dashen 行令大神. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Weng 翁, and opera is performed for two days. 5/6: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Hu 胡. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 5/17: The celebration of Hu gunniang 胡姑娘. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 6/28: The celebration of Yawen dutong dashen 押瘟都统大神 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 7/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yian lishê 义安里社 is organized by the Cheng 程, the Weng 翁, and the Fan 方 lineages all together, and opera is performed for three days. 7/6: The celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the surname of Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Fang 方, and opera is performed for one day. the celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 8/20: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡, and opera is performed for three days. 9/5: The celebration of 五显马元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡, and opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 11/19: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yiqingshê 仪清社 is organized by the Fang 方, and marionette plays are performed . 11/21: The celebration of Chenxiannü 陈仙女 is organized by Xiadun 下墩 and opera is performed for two days. 5. Rituals groups The numbers of spirit mediums is not predetermined, but sometimes as many as twenty men 5/ be possessed. At Yuanxiao and at god’s birthdays, one to five Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rituals 做醮. On 10/29 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. This ritual is organized by the temple management committee, who invite seven Buddhist monks and arrange for marionette plays and offerings. 8/2: 
A097 Sihua sanshê (Sihua three shê ritual alliance) 泗华三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Sihua is located on the northern bank of the Sihua Weir 泗华陂北端. This area was part of the Yanshou yangxipu 延寿洋 西铺 (police/defense unit) of Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Shihua 使华 was settled, and in the Qing it branched out into the villages of Xiazheng 下郑 and Kongzhaizhuang 孔宅庄. These villages are now managed by the Sihua Administrative Village 泗华行政村. The temple ritual system is primarily divided into the three she-altars of Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiazheng 下郑 and Kongli 孔里. The Xian zushê 溪安祖社 temple, located in Xiazheng 下郑 village, is the main temple of the Sihua three shê alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each shê would go the Xian zushê to invite the gods to go on a procession to each ritual territory, but these collective processions and rites have not been revived. 
V426 Dingcuo 顶厝 1. Village settlement The population of Dingcuo is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李and the Wei 魏. 3. Village temples Xian shangshê 溪安上社 was built during the Republican period, and renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Wangfu yuanjun 王府元君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Xian shangshê 溪安上社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V427 Xiazheng 下郑 1. Village settlement The population of Xiazheng is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xiao 肖. The Xiao originates from the Xiao mountains 萧山 of Zhejiang 浙江. They migrated here from Xiaocuo 肖厝 of Huian 惠安 during the late Qing. They are divided into eight branches, and originally had an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Xian zushê 溪安祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Deqingci 德庆祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xiangxianci 香贤祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. SJCDCB, 1992: 6 records twenty-two initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 the gods of Xian zushê 溪安祖社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V428 Kongli 孔里 1. Village settlement Kongli was originally known as Kongzhaizhuang 孔 宅庄. Kongli village includes Kongli 孔里 and Beipu 陂埔, and was originally known as the Kong Tianzhuang 孔氏田庄 of Hanjiang 涵江. The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Wulongmiao 五龙庙, Xidongshê 溪东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Beipusi Buddhist temple 陂埔寺 is located in Beipu 陂埔 (PTZJZCG, 1992:201). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Wulongmiao 五 龙庙 and Xidongshê 五龙庙 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/08: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On this occasion, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A098 Yangxi sijia (Yangxi four jia ritual alliance) 洋西四甲 The four jia ritual alliance of Yangxi is located within the Sihua Weir irrigation system 泗华陂, near the mountainous western edge of the northern irrigated plain. This region was part of the Yanshou yangxipu 延寿洋西铺 (police/defense unit) of the Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the Yangxi four jia ritual alliance village of Beichen 北辰 was settled, and in the Qing it divided into Yangxi 洋西 and Shandou 山兜 villages. Currently, there are the three natural villages of Shangdun 上墩, Xiadun 下墩 and Shandou 山兜 in this region, all of which are managed by the Yangxi Administrative Village 洋西行政村. Recently a new highway has cut through the region, cutting a swath through some of the villages. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis primarily of residence and lineage into four jia ritual associations. The Beichen zushê 北辰祖社 temple, located in Yangxi 洋西 village, is the main temple fo the four jia alliance. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year during Yuanxiao, the gods of the main temple and the founding shê altar are invited to go on a procession through all the villages of the alliance. 
V429 Yangxi 洋西 1. Village settlement Yangxi village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangdun 上墩 and Xiadun 下墩. The population is approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖and the Wu 吴. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 the Lin 林, the Song 宋 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Beichen zushê 北辰祖社, Beichen zumiao 北辰祖 庙: This temple was built during the Xianfeng period (1851–1861) and was rebuilt in 1987. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 2) Caihuidong 彩辉洞: The main god is 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Dage 大哥. 3) Sanshantang 三山堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. SJCDCB, 1992:9 records 38 initiates. 4) Jingangsi Buddhist temple 金刚寺 was rebuilt in Kangxi 19 (1680) (PTZJZCG, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 the gods of Beichen zushê 北辰祖社 and Beichen zumiao 北辰祖庙 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by Shangdun 上墩. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Shangdun 上墩. The birthday celebration of Sange sheren 三哥舍人 is organized by the Wu 吴of Shangdun 上墩. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xiao 肖in Xiadun 下墩. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Shangdun 上墩. 11/05: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/13: 
V430 Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement The population of Shandou is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the You 游. Other surnames groups include the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 and Yongxingshê 永兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Sange sheren 三哥舍人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Zhongjun 中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10 the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sange sheren 三哥舍人. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu feren 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A099 Houzhuo qijing (Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance) 后卓七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Houzhuo is located at the feet of the Jiuhua Mountains 九华山. The main source of water and irrigation is the water diverted by the Xia Wuziba dam 下吴仔坝. This area was part of Houzhuo zhaidoupu 后卓宅兜铺 (police/defense unit) of Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the village of Houzhuo was settled, and in the Qing the village of Zhaidou 宅兜 separated off. Currently the area contains the villages of Houdun后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Taofeng 桃峰, Shangguo 上郭 and Xiating 下亭. All these villages are managed through the Houzhuo Administrative Village 后卓行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to residence and lineage into seven ritual territories. The Lukougong 路口宫 temple, located in Houzhuo Huangqipo 后卓黄 岐坡 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods of Lukougong are Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃, while the secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Mayang zungong 马洋尊公. It is said that Lukougong 路口宫 was first built during the Song and collapsed during the mid-Ming. Each ritual alliance competed in wanting to take the statues of the gods back into their respective villages to offer their respects and worship. The temple was later rebuilt in a different location, but was completely torn down again during the Cultural Revolution. The temple was then rebuilt again in 1985 at the current location. Currently, this temple is the center of ritual action for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Houzhuo which includes Houdun 后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Taofeng 桃峰, Shangguo 上郭, Xiating 下亭, Donghu 洞湖, and Xiguo 西锅. As for such villages as Baidu 白杜, Qixi 企溪 and Xilou 下楼, they have developed into a relatively independent ceremonial systems, namely the ten-fold shê of Xibai 溪白十社 and the Donghu four village ritual alliance 洞湖四村. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance was part of the red banner alliance. 
V431 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun is divided into the three neighborhoods (jing 境) of Daxing 大星, Qingfeng 庆丰, and Lantian 蓝田. The entire village has more than 1000 people. Apart from agriculture, the local people live on the many fruit trees such as lychee trees and and waxberry trees. Many also work in shoe manufacturing factories. There is also economic support from their relatives overseas (Chinese overseas and Chinese in Taiwan). 2. Surname groups The entire village is mostly of the Wu surname group 吴, encompassing approximately 700 people. There are also a minority of the Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance Zheng 郑, Zhu 朱, and Xu 许. The Wu are from Jindun 金墩 and Tiezao 铁灶 in Hanjiang 涵江. They moved to Houdun, according to legend, during the Song Dynasty. Currently, the Wu in the village are divided into three branches, the Jiyu branch 季玉, Jinan branch 季南, and the Jifeng branch 季风房, of which the Jifeng branch has relatively more people, coming close to 300 people. The ancestral hall of the Wu is used as a storage room. The Wu are mostly spread out in two neighborhoods: Lantian 兰田 and Qingfeng 庆丰. 3. Village temples 1) Lukougong 路口宫 is the main temple for Houzhuo 后卓, Taofeng 桃峰, Donghu 洞湖, Xiamei 下美, Baidu 白杜, Xialou 霞楼, and Qixi 企溪. The temple was first built in the Song Dynasty, and was rebult in 1985 and later rebuilt again in a different location. The main god worshipped is Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Right altar, secondary gods: Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar, secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian yuanshuai 齐天元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Houzhuo Zhongshan xiaoyoushê 后卓境中山孝友社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝. Secondary gods: Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Dong 董, Ge 葛, and Zhou jiangjun 周将军. 3) Damafu 大妈府: Main gods: Cui 崔, Yang 杨, and Li 李 dama 大妈. 4) Xingshansi Buddhist temple 兴山寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 5) Lukoutang Buddhist hall 路口堂 was built in 1920 (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12 (taking turns with Qiandun 前墩), Huang 黄 and Chen erdian jiangjun 陈二殿将军 are invited to go on procession within the four neighborhoods of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Daxing 大星, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Qingfeng 庆丰, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/7: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Lantian 蓝田, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/28: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance. No opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and the celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 5. Rituals groups Each year one Xianglao 乡老 elder from each neighborhood is selected, four in total, to organize ritual activities of the year. Some Xianglao elders can tell fortunes 占卜 and chant spells 念咒. 11/11: 
V432 Xiating 下亭 1. Village settlement The current population of Xiating is more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. According to the Zheng, their ancestors emigrated from Zhuangbian 庄边 of Putian 莆田, because Houzhuo 后卓 used to be barren hills and they settled there while trying to reclaim the land. Others say that they emigrated from Chenmendou 辰门兜 of the inner city of Putian 莆田. The Zheng currently are divided into two neighborhoods in the village, that is, more than 400 people in Xiating and more than 300 people in Daxing 大星 of Houdun 后墩. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing zushê 龙兴祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 2) Anminfu 安民府 is dedicated to Daye 大爷. 3) Mingyingci 明应祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12, villagers participate in the procession of the Zheng 郑 and Wu 吴 lineages of Houdun 后墩 in rotation with the Xu 许 and Lin 林 lineages of Qiandun 前墩 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 5/6: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration was originally in the 7th lunar month, but it was brought up to the 6th day of the 5th lunar since the waxberries ripen during this time and villagers make money selling the waxberries during the celebrations. Opera can be performed. 
V433 Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement The entire village has a population of more than 700 people. Apart from agriculture, local people earn a living through rais- ing lychees, brick making, carpentry, and working in shoe manufacturing factories. 2. Surname groups The village was originally dominated by the Zhang 张, but now it is dominated by the Xu 许 and the Lin 林. The Xu used to be the long-term workers for the Zhang surname group. For unknown reasons, the Zhang no longer live in the village. The Xu make up three quarters of the entire population of the village, while the Lin make up one quarter. The origins of the Xu are unclear, nonetheless, formerly Xu surnamed people from Xudi 许地 in the Jiewai 界外 (areas subjected to coastal evacuation) visited Qiandun and claimed to share the same ancestors. It is said that during the Ming Dynasty, there were two high ministers (shangshu) 尚书 from Putian 莆田 at the court, one from Xibai 溪白 surnamed Fang 方 and the other by the surname of Xu from Qiandun village. When they were returning to their homes, a dispute arose as they both wanted to use the water from a stream at the foot of the Jiuhuashan mountain 九华山. Minister Xu wanted to use the stream for irrigation purposes while Minister Fang wanted to use it for making tea. The result of the dispute was to drill a hole in the rock that would allow only a small amount of the water to flow to Xibai, while the majority of the water flowed to irrigate the agricultural fields of Qiandun 前墩. This dispute made Minister Fang very angry and vengeful. He threw a lot of weapons into a deep pond located in the mountains behind Qiandun. Then he went to the emperor and told him that Minister Xu was preparing to overthrow the reign of the emperor by making weapons and assembling armies. When the emperor sent people to verify these claims, they found many weapons in the deep pond near Qiandun. Thus minister Xu and all his relations to the third degree were killed. One descendant of Minister Xu fled to the Jiewai 界外 (land beyond the limits). They added two strokes in front of the Xu character (许) so it became Xu (冫许 ). This is the reason behind the Xu (冫许) people coming to Houzhuo 后卓 to identify their common ancestry. The Xu 许 are divided into four branches in the village: first branch 头房, second branch 二房, third branch 三房, and fourth branch 四房. Among the branches, the second has the most people as well as an ancestral hall, which is now used as a storage center for straw. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongshan xiaoyoushê 中山孝友社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Dong 董, Ge 葛, and Zhou jiangjun 周将军. 2) Longxinggong 龙兴宫: Main god: Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanghei jiangjun 黄黑将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 3) Juhangting 聚沆亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12, the villagers take turns with Houdun 后墩 village to invite Huang 黄 and Chen 陈二殿将军 erdian jiangjun, four statues in total, to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and one Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct Jiao rituals 做醮 for two nights. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/19, 6/19, and 9/19: the birthday celebrations for Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days each time. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/18: the birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Lantian 蓝田, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contributions for the opera performance are partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题 缘 and partly by collecting on a per capita basis. 
V434 Shangguo 上郭 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. Apart from agriculture, the local people live on the many fruit trees and by brick-making. 2. Surname groups The Guo 郭 makes up 90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Li 李, the Lin 林, and the Zheng 郑. The Guo are related to those in Hetang 柯塘 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off from the Longxingshê of Xiating village 下亭龙兴社 in Xianfeng 9 (1859): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Huoshen jiangjun 火神将军, Hushen jiangjun 虎神将军, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯 is held. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contribution for the opera performances is partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题缘. The directors of these ritual events 主持人 are selected by rotation according to their age, two per year. 
V435 Taofeng 桃峰 1. Village settlement The entire village has a population of approximately 800 people. Their sidelines include fruit trees (lychee), shoe manufacturing factories as well as financial aid from Taiwan and overseas. 2. Surname groups The population of the entire village is 40% Chen 陈 and 25% Guo 郭. The Chen 陈 have some 300 people. One group are descendents of the Geli Chen 隔厘陈 who emigrated from Donghu 洞湖. This group has an ancestral hall in the village. The other group of Chen are called the Yingshui Chen 颖水陈, and emigrated from Kuokou 阔口. These latter Chen are divided into the first branch, second branch, third branch and fourth branch, of which the fourth has the most people, making up approximately one third of the total population of the surname group. The Guo 郭 have approximately 100 people. They emigrated from Guozhuang 郭庄 near Wujiang river 吴江. The Guo are also divided into four branches. The following miscellaneous surname groups are also found in the village: the Fang 方, the Weng 翁, the Lin 林, the Wu 吴, the Shi 施, the Huang 黄, the Yan 颜, the Cheng 程 and the Gao 高. 3. Village temples 1) Jianxingshê 建兴社 was built dring the Qing Tongzhi period (1862–1874). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Right: Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Baoandian 保安殿: Main god: Jin daren 金大人. Secondary gods: Lan daren 蓝大人, Huo daren 火大人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Yuanmingtang 园明堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Right: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhang gong 张公. Left: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Middle: Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. Front: Xuantan gong 玄坛公, Weituo 韦陀. 4) Cihangting 慈航亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guangong dijun 关圣帝君, Wuqu xingjun 武曲星君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Xinshantang 信善堂 was built in Guangxu period (1875–1909). The temple was renovated in 1987. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Dizangwang 地藏王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀. Side hall: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–13, all the gods in the shê temple are carried around on procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/5: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Baoandian 保安 殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/19 and 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. Opera is not performed. The offerings are set out by the Xinshantang 信善堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 6/3: The birthday celebration of Weituo 韦陀 is held. Opera is not performed, The offerings are set out by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjuin 张公圣君 is held with opera performances. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 8/5: The birthday celebration of Lan daren 蓝大人 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Baoandian 保安殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contributions for the opera performance are partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题缘 and partly by collecting on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals groups Hosts/managers of the event: Each year five Xianglao 乡老 are selected as managers, plus a few young people to aid in fundraising. 
A100 Xibai shishê (Xibai ten shê ritual alliance) 溪白十社 The ten shê alliance of Xibai is located at the base of the Jiuhua 九华山 mountains, and mostly draws its water from the Sihua Weir 泗华陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Baidupu (police/defense unit) 白杜铺 of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the villages of 白杜, Xipu 溪埔 and Dongban 东坂 were settled. In the Qing, the villages of Xiawei下 尾, Xiaxi 下溪, Xialiu下刘 and Qixi 企溪 separated off. Currently, approximately 5000 people live in the villages of the alliance, and they are managed by the Xibai Administrative Village 溪白行政村. Apart from agriculture, the local people earn a living by raising lychees, forestry, carpentry, as contractors, and as workers. The temple ritual system is divided up according to settlements and lineage into ten shê ritual associations. Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, located in Baidu 白杜 village, is the ancestral founding shê 祖社 of Xibai 溪白, while Beijidian 北极殿 in Luding 路顶 village is the main temple for Xibai 溪白. Each year on lunar 1/15, the ten shê of Xibai collectively celebrate the Yuanxiao festival, and take the gods of Xiaoyoushê and Beijidian on a procession to all the she-altars of the alliance. The ritual leaders of each shê are selected in rotation on the basis of age, while the director of the Xiaoyoushê is determined by casting divination blocks. A minority of villagers are Christians. The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Yao 姚. Other surnames include the Shen 沈, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Fang 方, and Li 李. The Lin, making up 30% of the population of Xibai, are mainly living in Tangbian, Gelong 隔垄 as well as in other villages. It is said that they came to Putian during the Huang Chao Revolt 黄巢起义 during the late Tang Dynasty. The Lin lineage is divided into four branches: Jun 君, Zi 子, Ju 居, and Li 利. The Zi branch has the most people, with approximately 450 people. They originally had an ancestral hall, but now it has been converted into a school. The Yao mainly live in Xiatou 下头 and Hantou 汉头, and make up 20% of the entire village population. They are divided into two lineage branches: Qian 乾 and Kun 坤. The Kun branch is the bigger one, and is subdivided into four sub-branches: Ren 仁, Yi 义, Shê 社, and Zhi 智. It is said that their founding ancestor first came to Puwei 浦尾 of Hanjiang 涵江 to Xibai 溪白. Their ancestral tombs are in Sanshan 三山, and there is a lineage genealogy. Xibai ten shê ritual alliance Historically, the Fang lineage of Baidu 白杜方氏 was a prominent local lineage with many successful examination candidates. Over the Ming, they produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and ten Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Song Chunxi 14 (1187), a Zhuangyuan (First place) memorial archway was erected for Fanghao 方镐, who had received the top award in the special examinations 特科第一名立“状元”牌坊. In Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Shuanggui 双 桂牌坊 memorial archway for two Fang brothers who had passed the exams. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460), a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for one Fangkui 方逵 . In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441), a Liuqing 流庆牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Di 方迪. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the ten shê alliance of Xibai was part of the black banner alliance. 
V436 Baidu 白杜 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing 杜塘境 Beijidian 北极殿, Xiaoyoushê 孝友社. It is said that this temple was called the Xiangying temple 祥应庙 in the Song dynasty. A stele from the Ming is preserved in the temple 明方 良永谕祭碑. The main gods are: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. A stele composed in Shaoxing 8 (1138) by Fang Lue 方略 entitled 有宋兴化军祥应庙记 (Record of the Temple of Auspicious Response of the Xinghua Commandery in the Song dynasty) describes a large temple in this village about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:11, No. 14). This stele is preserved at the Putian History Museum on the grounds of the former Dongyueguan. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and the Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuntian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes this event as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capital basis. 10/25: The village celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V437 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing Fangshishê, Tianhougong 杜塘境方石 社, 天后宫 is co-owned with Gelong 隔垄 village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions: On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized cooperatively with Gelong 隔垄, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from both villages. On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V438 Gelong 隔垄 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 425 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Guanyinge 观音阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Daguansi Buddhist temple 大观寺 was rebuilt in 1983 (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized cooperatively with Tangbian 塘边, and funds are collected on a per capita basis in both villages. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V439 Luding 路顶 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Yu 俞, and Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangfushê 祥福社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten- shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the entire ten shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V440 Xiaxi 下溪 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 900 people. The village is divided into Wucuo 吴厝 and Huangcuo 黄厝. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Huang 黄. The minor surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 信兴社 (which belongs to Wucuo 吴厝) was built in Qianlong 41 (1776), revived in 1986 and rebuilt in 2004. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wenlin shuipo 文临水婆, Huang jiangjun 黄将军. Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯 and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. 2) Anning shangshê 安宁上社 (which belongs to Huangcuo 黄厝) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulie jiangjun 武烈将军. 3) Qingshantang 庆善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary god is Zheng daren 郑大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Huang 黄 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临 水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. This is organized by the Huang lineage based in Anning shangshê 安宁上社. On 1/14 the Wu 吴 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 to go on procession within the village. This is organized by the Wu 吴 lineage based in Xinxingshê 信兴社. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession around all the ten shê. On all these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual mas ters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by Xiaoyou shê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V441 Xiatou 下头 1. Village settlement Xiatou was originally known as Xia Liu 下刘. The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yang 杨 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Zongxingshê 总兴社 was built in Qianlong 42 (1777). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Bao hougong 保侯公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Xu daren 徐大人, Cigan tianfei 慈感天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯 and Shengya jiangjun 圣牙将军. 2) Shenglong shuyuan 升云书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Longhutang 龙华堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Lanfu daren 兰府大人 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Damingtang 大明堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to all the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V442 Qixi 企溪 1. Village settlement The village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhuo 卓. The other surname groups are the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘 and the Zeng曾. 3. Village temples Anpingshê 安平社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 and Cigan tianfei 慈感天妃, 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V443 Hantou 汉头 1. Village settlement Hantou is also known as Xiangtou 巷头. The village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. The other surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Ou 欧. 3. Village temples 1) Aning zushê 安宁祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 2) Huayuantang 华源堂 was built in 1986. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Tiangong dadi 天宫大帝, Shuigong dadi 水宫大帝, Digong dadi 地宫大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 celebrations are held with opera. A procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14 and 7/16: Celebrations are held for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The offerings are set out by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 1/15, 7/15, and 10/15: Celebrations are held for the Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 of Heaven, Earth and Water. The offerings are set out by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Xiaoyoushê 孝 友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V444 Gushan 古山 1. Village settlement The village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples Longxingshê 隆兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 元宵仪式: On 1/13 the gods of the Longxingshê 隆兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Longxingshê 龙兴社 and the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V445 Dongban 东坂 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zeng 曾 and the Shen 沈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingningshê 新宁社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Ma daren 马大人, Deng zhongjun 邓中军, Wang zhongjun 王中军, Shi zhongjun 施中军. 2) Longxinggong 龙兴宫: Main god: Tianmen Zhu zhizun 天门朱至尊. 3) Longhuatang 龙华堂: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 of the Xingningshê 兴宁社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Xingningshê 兴宁社 and Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 11/28 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One. Scripture masters 经师 and friends of Dao (Three in One initiates) 道友 recite the scriptures 念经. This rite is organized by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A101 Donghu sanshê (Donghu three shê ritual alliance) 洞湖三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Donghu is located in between the Sihua Weir 泗华陂irrigation system and the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system. The villages of this alliance rely primarily on water from springs on Jiuhua Mountain 九华山 for irrigation. This area was part of the Loutou Xianpu 楼 头溪安铺 of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Dantou 淡头 was settled. Currently the area is divided into three natural villages: Donggu 洞湖, Xiguo 西锅 and Duxi 度西, all of which are managed by the Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to settlement and lineage into three shê-associations. The Yongningshê 永宁社, located in Donghu 洞湖 village was originally the founding shê-temple of the three villages. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. It is said that formerly the three shê joined in a common procession of the gods of this temple during the Yuanxiao festival. Later, due to disputes between them, they divided up, and the collective processions and rites have not been revived. The main surname group in this area is the Li 李. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. They are divided into the upper Li branch and the lower Li branch, of which the lower Li branch is further divided into five sub-branches. The Li originally had an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy, but these were destroyed. Their lineage genealogy is similar to that of the Li of Yangwei. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three shê alliance of Donghu was part of the white banner alliance. Donghu three shê ritual alliance 
V446 Donghu 洞湖 1. Village settlement Donghu was originally called Dantou 淡头. Donghu is a part of Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The total population of Donghu is approximately 3600 people. Their main source of income is agriculture. People also work in shoe manufacturing factories. Some even have their own factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Donghu village are the Li 李, Chen 陈, Lin 林 and the Fang 方. The Li have the most people and make up 40% of the entire population. The Fang and the Chen each make up 15%. There are a number of Christian households in the village. 3. Village Temples 1) Donghu Yongningshê 洞湖境永宁社 branched off from Lukougong 路口宫 in Houzhuo 后卓. Built in the Song, this temple was rebuilt in Wanli 21 (1593), renovated in Qianlong 12 (1747), Jiaqing 21 (1816), and again in 1988. Main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and 鲁府大妈. 2) Shuifengdong 水丰洞: It is claimed that this temple was originally built in the Tang dynasty. The temple was rebuilt in the 6th lunar month of 1992. Main god: Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. There is a Ming stele about irrigation rights preserved in the temple. 3) Xianyingmiao 显应庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhencisi Buddhist temple 真慈寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/13, the Li 李 carry the incense burners of the shê-altar 社炉 to each household to practice the Dao 道. On 1/14, the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 do the same. On 1/11 and on 1/15, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 and Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Qiuliu dashi 邱刘大使, and Chenzheng jiangjun 陈郑将军 are invited to go on procession within Houzhuo 后卓, Xitianwei 西天尾 and Xian 溪安. The incense burners are invited from the main temple. Opera is performed, One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. The Li lineage and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch with one another the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/ 25 and on 1/28, there is a procession of inspection around the village including decorated horses (zouma 走马), sedan chairs of the gods, the Toufu 头福 community leaders, and various performing arts troupes. The Li and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 are held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 5/15: The birthday celebration of Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯 is held. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/13: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian.五谷神仙 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for one or two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis at a rate of 0.5 RMB/ person. The village also has some Christian families. 
V447 Xiguo 西锅 1. Village Settlement The village of Xiguo has over 100 people. 2. Surname Groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group, while the Li 李 have five households. 3. Village temples Yongxingshê 永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Sida jiangjun 四大将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao Processions On 1/11 or 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). On 1/24, there is a joint lantern procession carried out together with the Yongning xishê of Duxi village度西永宁西社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 11/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera performances and Daoist rites. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 
V448 Duxi 度西 1. Village settlement Duxi village has over 100 people. 2. Surname Groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨, although there are also a few Chen 陈 families. 3. Village temples Yongning xishê 永宁西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Jiuniangma 九娘妈. Secondary gods include Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 and Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 or 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). On 1/24, there is a joint lantern procession carried out together with the Yongxingshê 永兴社 of Xiguo 西锅 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 and Jiu niangma 九娘妈 is held with opera performances and Daoist rites. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are gathered on a per capita basis.
A102 Fenglin qijing (Fengling sevenfold ritual alliance) 枫林七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Fenglin is located at the foot of Jihua Mountain 九华山. The main sources of irrigation in the area are from the Lianguibei Weir 联桂陂, the Xiangfeng moqianba dam 象峰磨前坝, the Xiawuzi dam 下吴仔坝, and the waters of the Guantang reservoir 官塘水源. This area was part of the Xuwupu 许吴铺, the Houpupu 厚埔铺 and the Xiangfengpu 象峰铺 (various police/defense units) of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the villages of Xiawu 下吴 and Shanghuang 上黄 were already settled. Currently the villages of Houpu 后埔 (Houpu 厚埔), Xiayu 下宇 (Xiaxu 下许), Chenglin 澄林, Guantang 官塘 (Ketang 柯塘), Kengtou 坑头, Shanghuang 上黄, Fenglin 枫林 (Linfeng 林峰), and Xitianwei 西天尾 (Xitingwei 西亭尾) can be found in this area. All of these villages are managed by the Dongxing Administrative 东星行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of the originally extant shê-temples of the region into seven ritual territories. Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, located in Linfeng 林峰 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main goddess of the temple is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the villages of the sevenfold alliance go to this temple to request incense fire 请香火. Everyday activities and larger ritual events of the temple are handled by the temple committee, made up of representatives from each of the member villages. Currently, Xitianwei 西天尾, which has become a bustling town, no longer participates in the ritual activities of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Linfeng 林峰. The proportional contribution to the costs of collective rites and processions of the remaining villages within the ritual alliance are as follows: Houpu 后埔 26%, Xiayu 下宇 24%, Chenglin 澄林 13%, Guantang 官塘 12%, Kengtou 坑头 3%, Shanghuang 上黄 7%, and Linfeng 林峰 15%. Fengling Qijing sevenfold ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Chenglin 澄林 was part of the black banner alliance, while the other villages were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V449 Houpu 后埔 1. Village settlement The current population is 1500 people. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Fruit trees provide a significant proportion of the economic income. The main types of fruit trees are dragon eyes, bananas, and loquats. The entire village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qiangan 前干, Dinggan 顶干, and Hougan 后干. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱, the Lin 林 and the You 游 are the main surname groups. The Xu 许 and the Chen 陈 each have more than ten households. The Weng 翁 have only one household. The Li 李 have three households and the Liu 刘 have five households. It is said that the Lin are from Shandong province 山东. They maintain the Tangmei (Lin) ancestral hall 唐美祠堂. The Zhu came from Jingpu 井埔 of Huangshi 黄石. The You claim to have originated from Pingguangjun 广平郡 of Henan province 河南. They are divided into six branches and have been in the village for more than ten generations. 3. Village temples 1) Houpujing Longxing yishê 后埔境隆兴义社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Guiputan 圭埔坛 (Guipu shuyuan 圭埔书院): Main gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Qingliandong 青廉洞: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Taishipingsi Buddhist temple 太史坪寺 was rebuilt in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14 Qiangan 前干, Hougan 后干, and Dinggan 顶干 take turns to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Li daren 李大人, and Wei daren 魏大人 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/22–23, the Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rite is celebrated. Lanterns go on procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V450 Shanghuang 上黄 1. Village settlement The entire village has a total of 154 people living in 26 households. Agriculture is the main livelihood. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the main surname group. Minor surnames include the Cai 蔡 in one household, and the Ou 欧 in 3 households. The Huang came from Putian city. They are related to the Chizhu Huang lineage of the eastern part of Putian city 赤柱黄. In Shanghuang village, the Huang are divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Shanghuang Anning zhongshê 上黄境安宁忠社 was rebuilt both in Qing Tongzhi 5 (1866) and in 1990. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Ruiyun gong 瑞云宫 was rebuilt in 1983. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, villagers go to the Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫 to invite back the incense burners. These are then are taken to every household in the village to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/15 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 are invited to go on procession within the village. Then lanterns are carried in a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V451 Linfeng 林峰 1. Village settlement The village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cheng 程. It is said that the Cheng emigrated from Jindun Tiezao 金墩铁灶 in Hanjiang 涵江. The minor surname group is the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫 was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 6 (1801) and renovated in 1984. Main god: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Secondary gods: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Fenglin Qingningshê 枫林境庆宁社 was renovated in 1987. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wugu daxian 五谷大仙. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Jicuian Buddhist shrine 积翠庵 was originally built in the Tang by monk Baoguang 宝光. In the Song, the monk Xingguo 兴国 rebuilt the temple. In Wanli 15 (1587), the monk Huixing 慧性 rebuilt the temple. In Kangxi 20 (1681) the monk Haiding rebuilt the temple. (PTZJZCG, 1992:214) 4) Yuyunsi Buddhist temple 寓云寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:214) 5) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. SJCDCB, 1992:36 records fifty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the main alliance temple of Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V452 Kengbian 坑边 1. Village settlement This small village has approximately 150 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Yixingshê 义兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Mayang zungong 马洋 尊公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Baifu daren 白府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingyundong 庆云洞: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 of the main alliance temple, the Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V453 Kengtou 坑头 1. Village settlement Kengtou is divided into Shangkengtou 上坑头 and Xiakengtou 下坑头. The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qinglong zushê 青龙祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Baifu daren 白府大人 and Jinyu tongzi 金玉童子. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the main alliance temple Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V454 Chenglin 澄林 1. Village settlement Chenglin is divided into seven neighborhoods: Xiangli 巷里, Cuowei 厝尾, Wengcuo 翁厝, Wucuo 吴厝, Zawu 杂吴, Dongpaichen 东牌陈, and Qianding 乾顶. The entire village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups 70% are of the Chen 陈 surname group. There are also more than sixty Lin 林 households, twelve Weng 翁 households, seventeen Wu 吴 households, and thirty Huang 黄 households. The Chen are the Chen of Dongyang 东阳陈 of Chengxiang 城厢 outside Putian city. The Weng came from Meilan 美兰 in Beigao 北高. The Lin claim to be related to the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 of Wushi 乌石 in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Chenglinjing Fulongshê 澄林境浮龙社 was originally built in Qianlong 22 (1757). The temple was destroyed in 1959, and rebuilt in 1987. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugu daxian 五谷大仙, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tielu zungong 铁炉 尊公, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军. 2) Yuanyingdian 元应殿 was rebuilt in 1985. Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 (main god), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chendaye 陈大爷. 3) Xinglongdong 兴隆洞: Main god: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 4) Wangfutang 万福堂: Main god: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Dongfu dage 董府大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers go to the main alliance temple, the Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫, to invite the incense burners back to their village, where they are taken to every household in the village to practice the Dao 行道. A procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕灯游境. On 1/15, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tielu zungong 铁炉尊公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊 公, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Lanterns are taken on a procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 is held. 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V455 Xiayu 下宇 1. Village settlement Xiayu was originally called Xiaxu 下许. Xiayu village is divided into two neighborhoods: Kejiao 柯角 and Youjiao 游角. There are currently more than 1000 people living in the village. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Other activities include female workers working in shoe manufacturing factories, carpentry and brick laying. 2. Surname groups The main surname group of Kejiao is Ke 柯, while the main surname group of Youjiao is You 游. Other surnames include the Qian 钱, Guo 郭, and the Zeng 曾. It is said that the Ke 柯氏 emigrated from Kezhu 柯朱 in Lingchuan 灵川 in Kangxi 32 (1693). 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong dawang 都统大王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Zhongtianci 中天祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 100 initiates. 3) Qimingtang 启明堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi观音大士. Secondary god: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–15: Dutong dawang 都统大王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, two fushou 福首 are selected to be in charge of holding the incense burners and organizing the zongjiaofan 棕轿饭 (feast for the palm sedan chair bearers). Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/24: The birthday celebration of Dutong dawang 都统大王. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Zhongtianci 中天祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V456 Guantang 官塘 1. Village settlement Guantang is also known as Ketang 柯塘. Guantang village is divided into three neighborhoods: Dingcuo 顶厝, Xincuoli 新厝里, and Changcheng 长埕. The entire village has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The entire village shares the surname Guo 郭, and is of the Hui ethnic group 回族. According to local legend, as recounted by lineage elders, the ancestors of the Guo originally lived in Gushi 固始 of the Henan province 河南. During the period of Tang Yizong (860–874) their founding ancestor Master Song 嵩公 entered Fujian province to settle in the Zhi Mountains of Changle 长乐芝山 (also known as Guokeng 郭坑), During the Kaiping period of the Latter Liang (907–911), Master Xun 询公 entered Xianyou 仙游 and lived in Dafeibei 大蜚山. During the Song period, Master Weigao 惟高公 moved to Gudai 郭埭 village of Weitang 魏塘 in Putian. During the Song Shaoxing period (1131–1162), Master Yaoruo 尧若公 moved to Cangzhou 沧州 (also called Guocang 郭沧 or Guozhuang 郭庄). During the mid-Yuan, Master Gou 垢公 moved to Wushi 乌石. During the late Ming, Master Bofeng 伯凤公 moved to Dingcuo 顶厝 in Guantang 官塘. In the early Qing, Master Jingshun 景顺公 moved from Caopu 草埔 to Xincuoli 新厝里 of Guantang 官塘. The above mentioned ancestors are the two main lines of origin of the Guo 郭 in Guantang village 官塘村. 3. Village temples 1) Anren shê 安仁社 branched off from Anren zushê 安仁祖社 of Xitianwei 西天尾 during the late Ming. In Qianlong 35 (1770), Master Xuebo 学博公 raised funds and built the temple. The temple was renovated in 1986 and was rebuilt in 1995. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Mayang zungong 马洋 尊公, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Dutong dawang 都统大王. 2) Baiyundong 白云洞 is dedicated to Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–15 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 天上圣母, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Dutong dawang 都统大王 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V457 Xitianwei 西天尾 1. Village settlement Xitianwei was originally called Xitingwei 西亭尾 and was a center of exchange for goods from the mountainous regions of Putian 莆田 and goods from the plains. There currently are more than 5000 people living in the market town. Their main livelihood is commerce and agriculture. Other livelihoods include female workers working in shoe manufacturing factories and commercial trading. 2. Surname groups Wei 魏, Shi 施, Cai 蔡, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Wu 吴, Weng 翁, Ke 柯, and Zhu 朱. It is said that Xitianwei village originally only had three surnames (that is, the Wei 魏, Shi 施, and Cai 蔡). The Chen 陈, Lin 林, and Wu 吴 emigrated from Houzhuo 后卓. The Weng 翁, Ke 柯, and Zhu 朱 moved here after the founding of the PRC, and are considered to be new settlers. 3. Village temples Xiawujing 霞梧境 Anren zushê 安仁祖社: It is said that in the past, only twenty-seven households built this shê. Lin Chongbao 林崇宝 volunteered land and money to build the temple. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 55 (1790), and was renovated in the 1990s. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Dutong zunwang 都统尊王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军 and Zoufu daren 邹府大人. 2) Rendean 仁德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Dutong zunwang 都统尊王 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/13: The birthday of Cuifu daren 邹府大人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A103 Chengzhu liushê (Chengzhu six shê ritual alliance) 澄渚六社 The six shê ritual alliance of Chengzhu is located in between the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system and the Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Chengzhu Donghuangpu (police/defense unit) 澄渚东黄铺 of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the village of Chengzhu was settled, and belonged to the Rendeli sub-canton, but it was reassigned to the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里 in the Qing. In the late Qing the villages of Miaoqian 庙前, Yuli 俞里, Shuiliuli 水流利, Banludian 半路店, Donghuang 东黄, and Xiazheng 霞郑 separated off. The current population is about 3000 people, and these villages are managed by the Chengzhu Administrative Village 澄渚行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of originally existing shê-temples into six shê. Apart from agriculture, the current source of income includes fields of lychee trees, fields of dragon eye trees, carpentry, stone-quarrying, and working in shoe manufacturing factories. The Ningchangmiao 宁昌庙 temple, located in Yuli 俞里 village, is the main temple of the six shê ritual alliance. The main god is Chifeng weiwu shenghou 敕封威武圣侯. It is said that formerly, on irregular occasions, the god was invited to go on a procession through the six shê of the alliance, but currently these collective processions have not been restored. Historically, the two surnames of Yu 俞 and Zheng 郑 were prominent lineages with successful examination graduates. In the Ming this area produced four Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twelve Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), a Panlong 攀龙牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Yu lineage 俞. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Miaoqian 庙前 village was part of the black banner alliance, while all the other villages were part of the white banner alliance. 
V458 Miaoqian 庙前 1. Village settlement The entire village has over 1000 people 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Li 李, Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Zheng 郑. The Chen make up 50% of the population of the entire village, and are the Chen of Yuhu 玉湖陈 (the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈). The Chen in the village are divided into three branches: Fu 福, Lu 禄, and Shou 寿, of which the Shou branch has the most people, with approximately 300 people. Chengzhu six shê ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Ningxingshê 宁兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 2) Shuiwudian 水武殿 is dedicated to Jiangdaren 江大人, Tiandaren 田大人, Zhaodaren 赵大人, Wang daren 王大人 and Baidaren 白大人. The secondary god is Majiangjun 马将军. 3) Bishuidong 碧水洞 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 4) Deben shuyuan 德本书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 120 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by four village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of the gods of Shuiwudian 水武殿 is held with marionette opera. 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V459 Yuli 俞里 1. Village settlement The village has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yu 俞, Chen 陈, and Yang 杨. The Yu 俞 make up 90% of the population. The Yu are divided into four branches: Xincuoli 新厝里, Datingli 大厅里, Xiacuoli 下厝里, and Lishengli 立生里, of which Xincuoli has the most people, making up more than half of the total population. The Yu have a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Ningchangmiao 宁昌庙 is also know as Tiyunzhai 梯云斋. Main god: imperially enfeoffed 敕封 Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯. Secondary gods: (left) Lubu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, (right) Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianpeng yuanshuai 天蓬元帅. The temple preserves a stele composed in Hongzhi 13 (1500) by Yu Rongyuan 俞榕原 entitled 梯云斋记 (Record of the Studio of the Ladder of Clouds) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:130, No. 111). 2) Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 3) Xinbentang 信本堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records fifty initiates. 4) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 record forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself. Every year, these events are organized by two village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by Xinbentang 信本堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V460 Xiazheng 霞郑 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300–400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. Currently, the village is divided into four groups, and each group has approximately the same number of people. There is an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. The village once produced an imperial censor 御史 surnamed Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Longjin dongshê 龙津东社 branched from Longkengshê 龙坑社. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Zhang gong 张公, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Huang daren 黄大人, Jiang daren 江大人, Liu dutong 柳都统, Jin dutong 金都统, Jixiang maojiang 吉祥茂将, Mafu shenjiang 马府神将. 2) Deshengtang 德胜堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Huang daren 黄大人 Jiang daren 江大人, Liu dutong 柳都统, Jin dutong 金都统, Jixiang maojiang 吉祥茂将, Mafu shenjiang 马府神将 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V461 Shuiliuli 水流利 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Han 韩, Zhu 朱, Xie 谢, and Chen 陈. The Zhu has the most people with approximately 300 members. The Zhu emigrated from Dongzhu 东洙 of Huangshi 黄石 a few hundred years ago. In the village, the Yao are divided into two branches: Yi 义 and Kun 坤. Later on, Yi and Kun each developed into two sub-branches, and each sub-branch has approximately the same number of people. The Xie has more than sixty people, and they emigrated from Daitou 埭头. The Xie are divided into five branches, of which the second branch has the most people. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off (divided incense) from Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Wubentang 务本堂 (the Zhu 朱): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records ninety initiates. 3) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 (the Xie 谢): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 are invited to go on processions within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by two village elders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. At the end of the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by the Wubentang 务本堂 and the Zongkongtang 宗孔堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V462 Banludian 半路店 1. Village settlement The village has 200–300 people. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 makes up more than 95% of the population of the village. The Yao 姚 moved here from Chongqin 冲沁 to open a shop, and a village developed from there, taking the name of the shop for the village name (“shop halfway down the road”). The Yao of the village are divided into six branches: Songshuxia 松树下, Jiucuo 旧厝, Gebicuo 隔壁厝, Yuanding 园顶, Xiazhangcuo 下张厝, and Cuobian 厝边, of which Jiucuo has the most people, with approximately 50% of the entire population. 3. Village temples Wanxingshê 万兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Jinfu daren 金府大人, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽 尊王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神 are invited to go on procession within the village and lanterns are paraded. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is hosted by two village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 11/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all the above occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V463 Donghuang 东黄 1. Village settlement The village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yao 姚, Huang 黄, Zhu 朱, Guo 郭, Wang 王, and Lin 林. The Yao emigrated from Chongqin 冲沁 in Hanjiang 涵江, while the Huang emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞 (Huangxiang) of Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Longjingong 龙津宫, 龙津东社 Longjinggong, Longjing dongshe: Main gods Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jinfu zhongjun 金府中军. 2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 3) Longjintan 龙津坛 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4) Mingshangong 名山宫 is dedicated to Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 5) Shuiyueting 水月亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Yaodaoci 瑶岛祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is dedicated to 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhu 朱 invite Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Tiangong yuanshuai 中天大圣 to go on procession. On 1/14 the Yao 姚, Huang 黄, and Guo 郭 invite the same gods to go on procession. On 1/15 the Wang 王 and the Lin 林 invite the same gods to go on processions. On 1/26–29 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 11/23: The birthday celebration of Jinfu zhongjun 金府中军 is held. On all occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A104 Longshan qijing (Longshan sevenfold ritual alliance) 龙山七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Longshan is located in between the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system and the Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Loutou xi’anpu 楼头溪安铺 and the Chenglinpu 澄林铺 (police/defense units) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the early Qing the villages of Daqiaotou 大桥头, Zhenxia 圳下, Xi’an 溪 安, Houting 后亭, Xishan 西山, Beishan 北山 and Wushi 乌石 were settled. After the founding of the PRC, the villages of Xincun 新村 and Dongzhen 东圳 were created to house villagers evacuated to make way for the creation of the Dongzhen Reservoir. The current population of the entire area is approximately 2400 people. All these villages are managed by the Longshan Administrative Village 龙山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê temples into seven ritual territories. Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, located in Xincun 新村 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. This temple is also a central temple for a smaller region. The main goddess is Imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual territories of the alliance come to the temple to present incense, and to invite the goddess back to their village to go on a procession around the village boundaries. And each year around the birthdate of Tianshang shenmu, the villagers of the region will go to the temple to sponsor opera performances. Every twelve years, Tianshang shengmu is taken on a procession through all the villages of the ritual alliance. The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, and the Yang 杨. The Huang, making up more than 60% of the total population of the sevenfold ritual alliance, live in Beishan 北山, Daqiaotou 大桥头, Wushi 乌石, and Zhenxia 圳下. It is said that the Huang moved to the village from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and are divided into five branches, of which the third branch has the most people, making up approximately 50% of the total population of the Huang. The Lin are mainly living in Wushi 乌石. There is a Jiumu zuci 九牧祖祠 Lin ancestral hall which is said to date to the Tang Dynasty and which was rebuilt in Qing Tongzhi 12 (1886), and rebuilt again in 1991. There is an old stele in the hall as well as portraits of the Lin ancestors. The Lin have a lineage genealogy and ancestral tombs in Wushi. The Yang make up 80% of the population of Xishan 西山 village. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Longhsan sevenfold alliance were part of the black banner alliance. 
V464 Xi’an 溪安 1. Village settlement Xi’an village includes an area known as Houting 后亭. The entire village has approximately 380 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng shangshê 新丰上社, Beijidian 北极殿, Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公无帅, Dian daren 电大人, Tian daren 田大人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense procession 进香 is made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V465 Daqiaotou 大桥头 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Su 苏, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingfu dongshê 兴福东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使. 2) Xianbentang 贤本堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 345 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, villagers go to the temple to ask for the incense fire 请香火 of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/14, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites are held. Initiates of the Three in One are invited to chant the scriptures. This ritual is organized by the Xianbentang 贤本堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V466 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting has over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Gu 顾. 3. Village temples Xinlong shangshê 新隆上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers go on a pilgrimage to Longshangong 龙山宫 temple to present incense 进香 and to request new incense fire from Tianshang shengmu 请天上圣母香火. On 1/13, the villagers take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of the Xinlong shangshê 新隆上社 on a procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, where Daoist ritual masters conduct a jiao ritual 道士做醮. These activities are organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, with the Houting temple paying for at least one day of opera and ritual. Funds for this purpose are raised on a per capita basis as well as via individual donations. 5/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V467 Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 230 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨. The other surname groups are the Dai 戴 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples Wan’anshê 万安社 was originally built in Guangxu 3 (1877) and was rebuilt in 1993. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense procession 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/12, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of Wananshê 万安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. On 1/13, villagers send off the Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to Longshangong 龙山宫. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 9/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V468 Wushi 乌石 1. Village settlement The entire village of Wushi has only 160 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Wushi zushê 乌石祖社 (Yihushê 壹壶社): Main god: imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yushu tianzun 玉枢天尊, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Liujiangjun 柳将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Lü Dongbing 吕洞宾, Li Tieguai 李铁拐, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙 山宫. Opera is performed, and a Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V469 Beishan 北山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. The are also ten households of the Chen 陈 surname group. 3. Village temples Xingfu xinshê 兴福新社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang yuanshuai 吉祥元帅, Dutian dasheng 都天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V470 Xincun 新村 1. Village settlement Xincun village includes the Dongzhen village 东圳. The entire village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhong 钟, the Gu 顾, and the Li 李. They emigrated from Xi’an 溪安 and Dongzhen 东圳 respectively. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng dongshê 新丰东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) The Longxingshê 龙兴社 originally belonged to Dongzhen 东圳. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯, Hubu dashen 虎部大神, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 3) Longshangong 龙山宫 was originally built in Qing Jiaqing 8 (1803), and was rebuilt in 1989. In the front hall the main god is the imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母. Secondary gods: Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang shengjun 马洋圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Huban daren 虎斑大人, Wenlai yuanshuai 文赖元帅. The rear hall is a Buddhist hall (fotang) 佛堂. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Shansheng tang 善圣堂: The temple is located on top of Longshan 龙山. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Left: Weituo 韦陀. Right: Jialan 迦蓝. 4) Feixianyan 飞仙岩: Main gods: (rear) Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊, (front) Xiangong ajiu 仙公阿舅. Secondary gods: Jiuxian 九仙, Deli shifu 德理师傅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. Incense is presented 进香 at the Longshangong 龙山宫 On 1/13 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. All these events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performed on the Longshan mountain 龙山, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the Feixianyan 飞仙岩, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 is held. Opera is performed on the Longshan mountain 龙山. This ritual is organized by Shanshengtang 善圣堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V471 Zhenxia 圳下 1. Village settlement Zhenxia village has approximately 500 people. This village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangzhenxia 上圳下 and Xiazhenxia 下圳下. Shangzhenxia has around 200 people, all of whom are the surname Huang. Xiazhenxia has about 300 people, all of whom are the surname You. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups: Huang 黄 and You 游. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng zushê 新丰祖社 (Xiazhenxia): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary god: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 2) Xinfeng xinshê 新丰兴社 ( Shangzhenxia): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mahou jiangjun 马侯将军. 3) Xianmingfu 显明府: Main god: Kang dage 康大哥. Secondary god: Li erye 李二爷. 4) Xingningmiao 兴宁庙 ( Shangzhenxia 上圳下) is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Wushi tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. Incense is presented 进香 to the Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/12 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited to practice the Dao 道 in every household while on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinfengshê 新丰社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. This event is organized by the You 游 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinfeng xingshê 新丰兴社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist master is invited to conduct the ritual. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Kang dage 康大哥 is held. Opera is performed for three days, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A105 Beida qijing (Beida sevenfold ritual alliance) 北大七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida is located along the northern main channel of the Yangshoubei Irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. The area was part of the Chendun Dagoupu 陈墩大沟铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming the villages of Chendun 陈墩 and Dagou 大沟 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Houyu 后俞, Beigou 北沟, Xizheng 西郑, Gouxia 沟下 and Guandou 宫兜separated off. The total population of the area is over 3000 people, and they are managed by the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê temples into seven ritual territories. Apart from agriculture and lychee trees, the local people also work as carpenters and in shoe manufacturing factories Yanfu zushê 延福祖社, located in Chendun 陈墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the territories of the alliance goes to the temple to invite the gods back to their village. Each year the birthday celebration of the gods is organized collectively by the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V472 Chendun 陈墩 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 makes up two third of the population while the Yao 姚 makes up one third. The Chen are related to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈 and are divided into three branches, of which the third branch has the most people. The Yao emigrated from Changlin 畅林 of Chengjiao 城郊. Each year two Fushou (ritual managers) are selected by rotation according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Yanfu zushê 延福祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Gaoshan sheng- Beida sevenfold ritual alliance hou 高山圣侯, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Zhuogong zhoushi 卓公咒师. 2) Xinxian lingong 新显麟宫 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Jiaxinggong 嘉兴宫 is dedicated to Wufu daren 乌府大人. Secondary gods are Sujiangjun 苏将军, Zhengjiangjun 郑将军, Huyi jiangjun 虎夷将军 and Huzhongjun 胡中军. 4) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 is held. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 9/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wufu daren 乌府大人 is held. This celebration is organized by the Beida 北大 sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals 
V473 Houlu 后炉 1. Village settlement Houlu was originally called Houyu 后俞. The entire village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 make up two thirds of the total population while the Luo 罗 makes up one third. The Huang moved to Houlu from Donghuang 东黄 inside of Putian city. The Huang have been in the village for five or six generations. There originally was an ancestral hall, but it was torn down. The Huang of the village are divided into three branches, of which the Qiaotoufang 桥头房 branch has the most people, approximately 210 people. The second branch has the least number of people. The Luo 罗 came to Putian from Hunan province eight or nine generations ago. They claim to have come from Hunan 湖南 province. There was an ancestral hall, but it was torn down. Two Fushou (ritual hosts) are selected each year according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Longpangong 龙攀宫 contains the Wanfushê 万福社: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Kaimingtang 开明堂 includes the Jielingong 捷麟宫: Main gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Li daren 李大人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 120 initiates. 3) Jielingong 捷麟宫: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Li daren 李大人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhuogong zhoushi 卓公咒师, and Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯 go on procession within the village. One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The day of Toufu 头福 beginning good fortune is celebrated. Opera is performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V474 Beijiao 北郊 1. Village settlement Beijiao was originally called Beigou 北沟. The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 makes up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Zeng 曾 and the Wu 吴. The Huang 黄 moved from Zhenghuang 郑黄 in Putian. The Huang of the village are divided into four branches: Dingcheng 顶埕, Xiacheng 下埕, Cuohou 厝后, and Goubian 沟边. The number of people in each branch is similar. 3. Village Temples 1) Yangqingong 洋沁宫, Xinanshê 新安社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wushi tianfei 吴圣天妃. 2) Zhumingci 主明祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 go on procession within the village and lanterns are paraded. Two ritual managers are selected on a rotation according to age. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/6: The Toufu celebration 头福 is held with opera. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Spirit mediums are invited to “pick the flower flame” 神童采花 (stand bare-chested in a flaming Roman candle). 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Zhumingci 主明祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis (4–5RMB per person). The ritual managers rotate into position according to age. Two hosts are selected per year. 
V475 Jiaoxia 郊下 1. Village settlement Jiaoxia was originally Gouxia 沟下. The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group of the Zhuang 庄. The Zhuang had emigrated from Xiadu 下度 of Huian 惠安. The entire village is divided into three lineage branches. Each branch has approximately the same number of people. The ancestral tomb is in Huian 惠安 county. Rituals managers (Fushou) are selected on a rotation basis, according to age, from amongst the elders of the village. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing zushê 隆兴祖社 contains the Beijidian 北极殿: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhufu daren 朱府大人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Minglingong 名麟宫: Main gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods are Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Wuhua tongzi 五花童子 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 are placed in palm sedan chairs 棕轿 and taken on a procession to practice the Dao 道 in every household with Shêlu 社炉. Opera is performed. A single Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V476 Dagou 大沟 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, and the Ou 欧. The Wu have more than 400 people and emigrated from Shangwu 上梧 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Wu are now divided into three branches, namely, the fourth branch, the sixth branch, and the Houmen branch 后门房. The ancestral tomb is near the Shipan water reservoir 石盘水库 of Xitianwei 西天尾. The Lin have more than 200 people. The Lin are now divided into three branches, namely, the second branch, the third branch, and the Houcheng branch 后埕房, of which the Houcheng branch has the most number of people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it is now a warehouse. It is said that the Lin emigrated from Qiulu 萩芦. The Ou 欧 have more than 200 people. Their origin is unclear. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, Longxing dongshê 隆兴东社 was built in Qing Jiaqing 8 (1803). Main god: Imperially enfeoffed Tianhou shengmu 敕封天后圣母. Secondary gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yunxiandong 云仙洞 was rebuilt in 1981. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 3) Yixintang 一心堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4) Longdetang 隆德堂: Main gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Yima furen 姨妈大神. Secondary gods are Shangma dashen 尚妈大神, Baifu daren 白府大人, Huangfu daren 黄府大人 and Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. 5) Xingfumiao 兴福庙 was destroyed in 1958 but was rebuilt in recent years. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 and Ou 欧 invite Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 go on a procession and lanterns are paraded. On 1/14–15, the Wu 吴 invite Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 to go on procession and lanterns are paraded. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the Lin 林 and Ou 欧, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the 吴, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the Lin 林 and the Ou 欧 together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. The celebration is organized by the Ou 欧, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals organization Rituals managers are appointed, with two from each surname group, and they rotate into positions of responsibility according to age. 
V477 Xizheng 西郑 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张, the Huang 黄, and the Zeng 曾. The Zeng has the most people, with more than 200 people. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社 was built in Xianfeng period (1851–1861) Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Longxing yishê 隆兴一社 was built in recent years. Main god: Zunzhumingwang 尊主明, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiansheng shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 3) Xingxun zumiao 兴巡祖庙 was built during the Ming Dynasty. Main god: Yangfu daren 杨府大人. Secondary gods: Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baifu daren 白府大人, Jiangfu daren 江府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the Chen 陈 and Lin 林 take the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社and the incense burner of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of the Zhaohui linggong temple 昭惠灵宫on a procession to their part of the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/15, the Zhang 张, Zeng 曾 and Huang 黄 take the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of the Longxing yishê 隆兴一社 and the incense burner of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of the Zhaohui linggong temple 昭惠灵宫on a procession around their part of the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct the rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/8: The birthday celebration of Yangfu daren 杨府大人 is held. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Baifu daren 白府大人 is held. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. This event is co-organized by the Xizheng village together with Tangbian 塘边 village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis in both villages. 4/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is also co-organized by Xizheng 西郑 village and Tangbian 塘边 village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from both villages. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Jiangfu daren 江府大人 is held. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 5. Rituals groups The ritual managers are the elderly of the village who take turns according to age. 
A106 Shanghuang ershê (Shanghuang two shê ritual alliance) 上黄二社 The two shê alliance of Shannghuang 上黄 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Shanghuangpu (police/self defense unit) of Rendeli subcanton 仁德里. In the Qing, the village of Shanghuang was settled. Currently the village population is over 1200 people. Shanghuang is managed by the Beida Administrative Village. 北大行政村. The local ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê altars. The main local surname group is the Lin 林, with roughly 90% of the village population. The remainder are members of the Huang surname group 黄. The Lin moved to the village from Hanjiang Shuangfu Duxia 涵江双福渡下. Their lineage is divided into three large branches. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the two shê of Shanghuang were both part of the black banner alliance. 
V478 Shanghuang 上黄 1. Village settlement Shanghuang is part of the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The entire village has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group, the Lin 林, makes up more than 90% of the total population. Other surnames include the Huang 黄. The Lin emigrated from Shuangfu 双福 (Duxia 渡下) of Hanjiang 涵江. The Lin of the village are now divided into three branches: the sixth branch, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Citangbian 祠堂边. The latter makes up 40% of the total population. 3. Village temples 1) Chongdeshê 崇德社: This temple was originally owned by the Huang 黄, but since the shê of the Lin 林 had collapsed, the Lin combined their shê with that of the Huang. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (two statues), Zhang gong 张公 (two statues), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (two statues). 2) Shuanghuangjing chongdeshê 上黄境崇德社 belongs to the Lin 林. This temple was rebult in 1996. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dugong yuanshuai 杜公元帅. 3) Kaizhengmiao 开正庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen姨妈夫人, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Xiefu dashen 谢府大神 and Huye 虎爷. 4) Taizimiao 太子庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Lin 林 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Lin portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Lin surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 the Huang 黄 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Huang portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/1: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Rituals managers rotate into responsibility for management of annual celebrations according to age. 4/24: 
A107 Qibu qijing (Qibu sevenfold ritual alliance) 七步七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Qibu is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Qibupu 七步铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming the village of Qibu 七步村 was settled, and in the Qing the villages of Paohudun 袍笏墩 (Caoqiaotou 草桥头), Shanglindun 上林墩, Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Guodun 郭墩 and Toudun 头墩 separated off. In the late Qing the villages of Zhuxiang朱衖 and Zhengdun 郑墩 have been settled. All these villages are managed by the Qibu Administrative Village 七步行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to shê altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. These are locally known as the sevenfold ritual alliance of the eight mounds 七境八墩. The Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社, located in Shanlindun 上林墩 village, is the founding shê-temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance must start its own procession of the gods from this temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Qibu was part of the black banner alliance. 
V479 Zhuxiang 朱衖 1. Village settlement Zhuxiang includes Qianzhi (Guodun) 前至 (郭墩). The population of Zhuxiang is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Wu 吴 and Guo 郭. Qibu sevenfold ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Longxingshê 龙兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianjimiao 显迹庙: The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Baiyundong 白云洞: The main god is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Liewei shaoye 列位少爷, Jin daren 金大人, Bai daren 白大人, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, gods of Longxingshê 龙兴社 are invited to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within the territory by the Guo 郭in Qianzhi 前至. On 1/15–16, the gods of the Longxingshê 龙兴社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the Guo 郭 of Qianzhi 前至. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V480 Zhengdun 郑墩 1. Village settlement Zhengdun was originally called Toudun 头墩. Zhengdun village includes the area known as Xiting 西亭. The population of Zhengdun is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qingzi beishê 青紫北社 was originally built during the early Ming. According to local legend, Emperor Zhengde 正德皇帝 painted a bat on the temple wall during his trip to Jiangnan, thus there are no mosquitoes in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Heyitan 合一坛: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Chen dage 陈大哥, Zhang dage 张大哥, Li dage 李大哥, Liu dage 刘大哥, Jin daren 金大人, Hong daren 洪大人, and Lan daren 兰大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to practice the Dao in every household and to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16–17, Shêlu 社炉 incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to practice the Dao 道. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/4: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11/24: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V481 Chaiqiaotou 柴桥头 1. Village settlement The population of Chaiqiaotou is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Sun 孙 and the Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qingzi nanshê 青紫南社 (located in Zhengdun 郑墩): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Baolingong 保麟宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Jufengting 聚峰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Zhongshantang 中山堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V482 Shanglindun 上林墩 1. Village settlement The population of Shanglindun is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shi 施, Li 李, and 陈 Chen. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 2) Xianzhengong 显镇宫: Local legend has it that that the emperor (Huangdi 皇帝) lived here during the Pingmin shibadong military campaign 平闽十八 洞 (a series of magical battles to pacify Fujian). The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Feifu daren 飞府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 the gods of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 are taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Between 1/28–2/4, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东 village goes on procession through the villages of Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the three villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 11/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V483 Jiaodong 郊东 1. Village settlement Jiaodong was originally called Goudong 沟东. The population of Jiaodong is approximately 1800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Fang 方 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 contains the altars of the Funingshê 福宁社, the Fuanshê 福安社, and the Changfushê 长福社 (belonging to Jiaoxi 郊西 village): This temple was built in 1404, rebult in 1685 and again in 1987, and was rebuilt and expanded in 2004. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wang lingguan 王灵官 (Fujishen 扶乩神—a god who possesses spirit mediums). 3) Ruilingong 瑞霖宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Yuqingci 玉清祠 (belongs to the Wu 吴): The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 records 77 initiates. 5) Humingci 湖明祠 (belongs to the Lin 林): The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Funing shê 福宁社 go on procession to Xu 许 households. This is organized by the Xu surname group. On 1/11, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Xiaowu 小吴 and Xu 许 households. This is organized by the Xiaowu 小吴 residents. On 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Qianwu 前吴 and Houwu 后吴 households. These events are organized by the Qianwu 前吴 and Houwu 后吴 residents. On 1/14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Fang households 方. This is organized by the Fang 方. On 1/15, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Lin 林 households. This is organized by the Lin 林. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 go on procession within the village. Between 1/28–2/4, on a day determined by divination, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong village 郊东 goes on a procession through Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê 福安社. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. The events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê temples and their communities, and funds are raised on a per capita basis and/or by voluntary contributions. 9/3: 
V484 Jiaoxi 郊西 1. Village settlement Jiaoxi was originally called Gouxi 沟西. The population of Jiaoxi is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Wei 魏 and the Guo 郭. 3. Village temples Changfushê 长福社 is located in the Zhongxing gong 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东). Guanyinting 观音亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Deshantang 德善堂 was built in 1926 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Changfushê 长福社 go on procession to Chen 陈 households. This is organized by the Chen. On 1/18, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Changfushê 长福社 go on procession to Wei 魏 and Guo 郭 households. This is organized by the Wei and Guo surname groups. Between 1/28–2/4, on a day determined by divination, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东 goes on a procession through Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V485 Paohudun 袍笏墩 1. Village settlement The population of Paohudun is approximately 1000 people. This village is divided into the Houcuo 后厝, Xiacheng 下埕 and Xiadun 下墩 neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 originally had a wooden plaque 匾 inscribed by Wen Tianxiang 文天祥, but it was destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong tiashi 杨公太师, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Zouma sheren 走马舍人, and Zhuzi shengjun 朱紫圣君. 2) Zhenglingong 正麟宫: The main god is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima furen 姨妈夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Li daren 李大人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Lufu shaoye 鲁府少爷 and Li jiangjun 李将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, gods of Xinxingshê 新兴社 are taken by Houcuo 后厝 to every one of its household to practice the Dao and then go on a procession within the village. On 1/15, the gods of Xinxingshê 新兴社 go on procession within the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/11: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A108 Wujiang sishê (Wujiang four shê ritual alliance) 吴江四社 
V486 Wujiang 吴江 1. Village settlement Wujiang was originally known as Wudao 吴刀. The village is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Wudaopu 吴刀铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming, the village was already settled. The current population is approximately 3700 people. The village is both a natural village and an Administrative Village. The temple ritual system is divided mainly on the basis of lineage into four shê. The four shê are the Zhongxingshê 忠兴祖社, the Dongshê 东社, the Lishê 里社, and the Nanshê 南社. The Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 is the main temple of the four shê alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê ritual alliance of Wujiang was part of the red banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The first settlers were the Wu 吴. Now, the main surname groups are the Zeng 曾, the Zhan 詹, the Yang 杨. Minor surname groups include the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, and the Jiang 江. The Zeng make up one third of the total population, the Zhan make up another third, and the Yang make up one quarter. The Zeng are divided into four lineage branches, of which the first branch has the most people, making up one third of the total number. The third branch has the least number of people, having only one household. There is currently a Zeng ancestral hall 曾姓祠堂 which was build during the Qing, and is used during the Yuanxiao festival 元宵 and during marriage ceremonies. The ancestral tombs are in Shangfeng 上峰 of Xitianwei 西天尾. The Zhan are divided into three lineage branches, of which the first branch has the most people, making up almost a third of the total number. There is an ancestral hall and ancestral tombs. The Yang are also divided into three lineage branches, of which the second branch has the most people, making up approximately 40–50% of the total number. 3. Village temples 1) The Wujiangjing Chongshengmiao 吴江境崇圣庙 was rebuilt in 1992. The main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Heshi xianshi 和氏先师, Liu xiansheng 刘先生. 2) Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 and Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社: This joint temple is co-owned by the Zeng 曾 and the Zhan 詹. The temple was rebuilt in 1989. The Zhongxing zushê (belonging to the Zhan 詹) main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社 (belonging to the Zeng 曾) main gods are a different pair of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社: Co-owned by the Jiang 江, Huang 黄, and the Lin 林, this temple was rebuilt in 1991. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fuying shenghou 孚应圣侯, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 4) Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社: the temple is owned by the Yang 杨. The temple was originally taken over by the village commune (gongxiaoshê 供 销社), but now it has been restored. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Qingming shuyuan 清明书院: Also called Qingmingtang 清明堂, the temple was built in 1982. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods: (left altar) Zhang sanfeng 张三峰, (right altar) Zhuo zhenren 卓真人; left corridor: Chen Zhida 陈智达, Liang Puyao 梁普耀. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 145 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhan 詹 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/11–12, the Zeng 曾 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/13, the Yang 杨 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, the Chen 陈 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/15, the Huang 黄, Jiang 江, and Lin 林 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/15, each surname group of the village hang up lanterns in their own shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/28, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Sima shengwang 司马圣王 of Chongshengmiao temple 崇圣庙 is invited to go on procession within the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/8: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. A jinxiang 进香 presentation of incense pilgrimage is made to the Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong Mountain. This event is organized by the Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/7: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/8–9: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Jiang 江, Huang 黄, and Lin 林 of Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/11–12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Zeng 曾 of Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/13–15: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Zhan 詹 of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 6th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾 are each responsible for one day, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held . Opera is performed. This event is organized by Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of the Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Heshi xianshi 和氏先师 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾 are each responsible for one day, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Yang 杨, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 and Dongshê 东社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is co-organized by the Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Jiang 江, the Huang 黄, and the Lin 林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/3: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度. Marionette plays are performed. The Three in One ritual is organized by the Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A109 Daili qijing (Daili sevenfold ritual alliance) 埭里七境 The Daili sevenfold village alliance is located at the intersection of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation 太平陂. This region was part of the Yishan shanglinpu 依山上林舖 and the Lüdongpu 吕洞铺 (police/defense unit) of Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming, the village of Lüdai 吕埭 was settled, but by the early Qing it had divided into the villages of Shanglindai 上林埭. Lindai 林埭, Xiadun 霞墩, Xikou 溪口, Youqiaotou 游桥头, Xijiangbian 西江边, Qianhuangdai 前黄埭, and Caidai 蔡埭. In the late Qing the villages of Xiacheng 下澄, and Xiagao 下高 separated off. These villages are all managed by the Daili Administrative Village 埭里行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. The Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 temple, located in Qianhuang village 前黄村, is the main temple of the seven village alliance 七境总宫. The main god of the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each year with an intercalary lunar month, the god is carried on a procession to each of the villages in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance was originally part of the red banner alliance, but later the villages of Xikou 溪口 and Xiagao 下高 joined the white banner alliance. 
V488 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement The total village population is over 750 people living in 140 households. The main livelihood is agriculture, lychee trees, and some fishing. Formerly, when racing dragon boats, the village raised a red banner to indicate that it was neutral in the conflicts between black and white banner alliances at the end of the Qing. 2. Surname groups It is said that the Wu 吴 surname group was originally the dominant one in the village, making its living by making pottery, but that they later moved to Danwei village in Tantou 塘头潭尾, and that the Lin 林 also moved to an outside village. Currently, the Weng 翁 make up 90% of the village population. There are also some households of the Huang 黄, one of the Zheng 郑, the Chen 陈 and the Wu 吴 have only one old man left. The Weng came from the northern part of Wutang, from Dongpo village 北梧塘东坡村. It is said that the first Weng to come to Shanglin village married a daughter of the Lin and had two sons. The eldest was surnamed Lin, but died young. The second took the Weng surname, and lived on in Shanglin, becoming the founding ancestor of the Weng of the village. Now the Weng have divided into three lineage branches, called Fu 福, Lu 禄 and Shou 寿三大房. The Fu branch has about 30 households, the Lu branch has 80, and the Lu branch has 25. The Weng ancestral hall is still extant, and the founding ancestor Master Jihua 季华公, the second generation ancestor Master Chenghou 二世祖诚厚公 along with the third generation branch founders Master Duxin 三世祖笃心公, Master Yangxin 养心公, and Master Tingxin 汀心公 are all worshipped in this hall. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglinjing Longboshê 上林境龙波社 was repaired in 1983. In the middle altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴胜天妃. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the left altar is Tanhuafu Tiangong yuanshuai 探花府田公元帅 (there was formerly a spirit medium often possessed by this god), Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Puji shengshou 普济圣侯, Heihu dajiang 黑虎大将, the Baban zaoli 八班皂隶. On the left altar which is referred to as the Fulin xinggong 绂麟行宫 are found Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huang sheren 黄舍人, Bai sheren白舍人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Lufu shaoye 鲁府少爷. In the front of the temple there are altars for Xie daye 谢大爷 on the left, and Fan erye 范二爷 on the right. 3) Jieshengtang 捷圣堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records ten initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 villagers go the temple to pray for blessings 上元祈福. On 1/16 Wushi tianfei 吴氏天妃 is invited to go on a tour of inspection procession throughout the village. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the rituals. One holds the incense burner, one holds the god statue, and two hold the great lanterns. Daoist masters are invited to recite scriptures. Birthday celebrations of the gods Early in the second lunar month, the first opera of the year 头条戏 is performed for two to three days. 7/16: The celebration of Wushi tianfei 吴氏天妃. Opera is performed for two or three days. 9/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 (known colloquially as Shêgong and Shêma 社公社妈). All the gods are invited to watch opera for three to seven days. Each day rituals are held three times, and are conducted by Daoist ritual masters. In the 10th lunar month, the Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 下元普渡 are performed. Every three years a more elaborate Lanpen 兰盆 ritual is held in which the lamps of longevity 寿灯 are burned. 5. Rituals Groups The village has no mediums, Daoist master, or opera troupes. Each Yuanxiao, they invite Daoists and opera troupes to perform in the village. There is a Three in One temple called the Jieshengtang 捷圣堂 which was rebuilt in 1983. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Secondary gods include Beijidian Xuantian shangdi 北极殿玄天上帝 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year on 10/15, five tables of offerings of fruit and tea are prepared for the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The Three in One initiates recite the scripture of offering of tea each day in the morning and evening, and on the first and fifteenth of each month they recite the Scripture of the Three Sages.
V487 Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement The village of Xiadun has a population of over 800 people living in over 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by lychee trees and fishing. According to local legend, the deep channel behind the village was known as the Turtle Channel, and was the lair of a turtle demon. Every time the weather changed, he would rise up out of his hole and float on the surface of the water. Then he would gobble up the spirits of the men of the neighboring village of Loutou 漏头, causing them to wither and decline. Later a geomancer destroyed the turtle, and its corpse floated to the surface. Thus in the channel there formed a small islet surrounded by water, where the village of Xiadun 下墩 formed. Currently the village sets up a red banner when they race their dragon boats. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of only the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. The Xiadun Lin came from Shanglin village, while the Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 outside Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Xiadunjing Longboshê 下墩境龙波社 branched off from the Shanglin Longboshê 上林龙波社. In 1982, the Singapore Overseas Chinese Lin Wenqi 林文棋 and Lin Jinsuo 林金锁 repaired the temple. On the main altar is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土人人, to the left are Wencao 文曹 (civil ministers) and to the right Wupan 武判 (military officers). 2) Anhuaigong 安怀宫 was built in the Qing Qianlong period (1736– 1795) and restored in 1985. Inscriptions on the temple commemorate the contributions of Overseas Chinese from Singapore. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the Lin 林 pray for good fortune上元祈福. On 1/14 the Chen 陈 pray for good fortune 上元祈福; and on 1/15, they invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 to go on a procession of inspection and seal the roadways 出巡封路. Each year eight Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility for the management of the rituals. Daoist ritual masters are invited to recite scriptures and conduct a jiao 念经做醮. As an old saying goes, “Gong 公, Ma 妈 and Hou 侯 got under way together.” Eight ritual managers are selected in rotation according to age. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct the rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25–26: The first opera of the year 头条戏 is performed. 2/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for one day. In the fourth lunar month the celebration of Heaven and Earth is held and there is opera for two days. 8/8: The celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held, with opera for five to six days. 5. Rituals Groups There are no Daoists, Tanban altar association, spirit mediums, or opera or marionette troupes in the village. At Yuanxiao, Daoist masters are invited in from outside villages, and Buddhist monks are invited in to perform the xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance (in the 10th lunar month). On the birthdays of the gods, opera troupes or marionette troupes are invited in to perform. Originally, the goddess Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 would possess a spirit medium and transmit messages via planchette but this tradition has diminished in recent years. In 1960 the spirit medium went to Singapore to the Anhuaigong 安怀宫 there at the invitation of Lin Wenqi 林文棋, a Singapore Overseas Chinese. There he continues to transmit the messages of the goddess. The village has a Three in One temple called Liuyetang 六也堂 (also called the Liuye shuyuan 六也书院) dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods to the left are Sanjiao faye 三教法爷, and to the right, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Rituals are held in the temple on the first and fifteenth of every month. The village also has a Buddhist nunnery called the Chongde’an 崇德庵 managed by a nun and dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 
V489 Xikou 溪口 1. Village settlement The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by lychee trees, livestock, and jobs for women in shoe manufacturing factories. During the inter-village struggles of the late Qing, the village shifted from being a red banner to allying with the white banner villages. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 make up about 50% of the village population, and the Cheng 程 make up 40%. In addition there are some Luo 罗 and Chen 陈 households, about ten each. The Zheng came to the village from Chenmendou 辰门兜 in Putian city. The Cheng 程氏 were originally the sons-in-law of the Zheng, and thus stayed on to live in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Xikoujing Longbo xinshê 溪口境龙波新社 is dedicated to Chifeng shengwang 敕封圣王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Shu daren 署大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the first opera of the year is performed 演头条戏. On 1/11, the Cheng 程 take the gods on a procession. On 1/14 the Zheng 郑 take the gods on procession. On 1/15 the Luo 罗 and the Chen 陈 take the gods on procession. On each occasion four palm sedan chairs are carried on procession, with seats for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The village has spirit mediums but no Tanban altar association. The gods who possess the mediums are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shu daren 署大人. The Three in One temple is called Xingbentang 兴本堂, and it is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 
V490 Youqiaotou 游桥头 1. Village settlement The village of Youqiaotou includes the two neighborhoods of Youqiaotou 游桥头 and Xiahuang 下黄. The population of the village is approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in Youqiaotou is the Chen 陈. There are also the You 游, the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林 and the Wu 吴. Xiahuang is entirely made up of Chen households. The Chen came to the village from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口 and are of the same Chen lineage as the Chen of Xizhuang 西庄陈氏. The Zheng 郑氏 moved to the village from Daicheng 岱埕 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Longbo dongshê 龙波东社 was repaired in 1984. On the main altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left altar: Zhougong yuanshuai 周公元帅, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃. Other gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Xiao zhongjun 肖中军. 2) Xieyitang 协义堂 was rebuilt in 1946. The main god is Huofeng shenghou 火风圣侯. Left altar: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Right altar: Zhougong yuanshuai 周公元帅. 3) Wanshanting 万善亭 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 there is a procession of the gods in Youqiaotou 游桥头 to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in every household. On 1/15 the same thing takes place in Xiahuang 下黄. On 1/17 the entire village does a joint procession, opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rites. Four palm sedan chairs go on procession, carrying Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. Each year four Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility for the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Huofeng shenghou 火风圣侯. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 10/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis, 2 yuan per person. 5. Rituals groups The village Three in One temple is the Genbentang 根本堂, which was restored in 1992, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 
V491 Caidaidongzhi 蔡埭东至 1. Village settlement The village of Caidai dongzhi has a population of approximately 730 people, living in around 160 households. The main livelihood is agriculture, supplemented by growing lychees, fishing, handicrafts, and a small number involved in commerce. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. There are also minor surname groups such as the Su 苏, the Cai 蔡 and the Zhuo 卓. The Huang 黄 came from Huangxiang in Hanjiang 涵江黄巷 (Huangxia village 黄霞村). The Chen came from Kuokou near Putian 阔口. 3. Village temples 1) Lüdongpu caidaijing Shengxing dongshê 吕洞铺 蔡埭境盛兴东社 has the following main gods on the central altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Liugong shengjun 刘公圣君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Guanhu jiangjun 管虎将军, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liu xiangu 柳仙姑, Li xiangu 李仙姑. Perched high above the altar: Beijidian Xuantian shangdi 北极殿玄天上帝. 2) Bigaoci 陛高祠 is dedicated to Hou daren 侯大人 (who has hereditary spirit mediums), Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Fu daren 傅大人, Baoling zhongjun 保令中军, Yangfu zhongjun 杨府中军, Wei zhongjun 惟中军, Fa zhong jun 法中军. Left altar: Lingshantan Nezha taizi 灵山坛哪咤太子. Right altar: Wanfumiao Baidaren 万福庙白大人 (who possesses spirit mediums). 3) Mingyitang 明义堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 record 120 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福 and take lanterns on a procession. They invite Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 in a large sedan chair, and five smaller palm sedan chairs are prepared for Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 1/14 at night the palm sedan chairs leap over a bonfire, and the Fushou 福首 invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/15 Taiyi xiangu delivers incense 走香 from the Yongxing xishê 永星 西社 to each household. The roads to the village are ritually sealed, Daoist rites are held, and the temple doors are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation. Three of them carry the incense burners, and the fourth carries a tray of offerings to the goddess. The procession includes 24 members of a drum and cymbal woman’s music troupe, one large banner carrier, four middle sized banner carriers, two people to carry the great drum, and two to carry smaller drums, two to carry great lanterns, and two to carry “earth lanterns”, two more to carry “peace lanterns”, a Daoist ritual master, one person carrying the goddess’ umbrella, and two people to set of firecracker guns along the route of the procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/20: The celebration of Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/17: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/20: The celebration of Hou daren 侯大人. On each of these occasions, the Fushou arrange for tables of offerings to be set out in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to recite scriptures and conduct rites. Opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis, at a rate of 1.50 yuan per person. 
V492 Caidaixizhi 蔡埭西至 1. Village settlement The village of Caidai xizhi has 524 people living in 116 households. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Cheng 程 and the Lin 林. There are also fourteen households of the Xiao 萧, and five households of the Cai 蔡, and a few outside households of Zou 邹 and Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Caidaijing Yongxing xishê 蔡埭境永兴西社 is divided into the upper and lower temple halls. The temple is said to be an ancient shê temple from the Song which was rebuilt in the Qianlong period (1736–1975), expanded in the Republican period, and rebuilt again in 1989. The temple couplets read: “ During Yuanxiao follow the ancient rites, under the moon take lanterns on procession to the eastern and western shê altars. The Nuo exorcism shines on every year, we pray for good fortune and peace for every household, large and small.” The front central altar is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qiu dutong 邱都统, Liu dotung 刘都统, Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统. The back central altar is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Left altar: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 2) Bikedong 陛科洞 is dedicated to Hou daren 侯大人. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Right altar: Fude zhengsheng 福德正神, Baoling zhongjun 保令中军, Yangfu zhongjun 杨府中军, Fa zhongjun 法中军, Wei zhongjun 惟中军, and Shenggong 圣公. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福 and go on a procession with lanterns. They invite Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 to sit in a large sedan chair, and five smaller palm sedan chairs are prepared for Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 1/12 at night the palm sedan chairs leap over a bonfire, and the Fushou 福首 invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/13 incense 走香 from the Shengxing dongshê 盛兴东社 is taken to each household. The roads to the village are ritually sealed, Daoist rites are held, and the temple doors are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/1: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/20: The celebration of Hou daren 侯大人. 11/2–3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 and the Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. On each of these occasions opera is performed for two days. 5. Rituals Groups The Deqingan 德清庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and is tended by a Buddhist nun. 
V493 Qianhuang 前黄 1. Village settlement The village of Qianhuang has over 700 people, and is divided into five neighborhoods: Weicuo 尾厝, Qiancuo 前厝, Dapo 大坡, Geqiao 隔桥, and Houcuo 后厝. The main livelihood is farming, and the community is rather poor. 2. Surname groups This village is a mixed surname village. In Weicuo 尾厝 the Zheng 郑 are dominant. There is a Zheng ancestral hall called the Chaoyici 郑氏朝议祠, and there are also several households surnamed Weng 翁. In Qiancuo 前厝 the Lin 林 are dominant. In Dapo 大坡 the main surnames are Huang 黄 and Chen 陈. In Geqiao 隔桥 there are the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Zhuo 卓, the Huang 黄 and the Zeng 曾 surnames. In Houcuo there is only the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Qiantanggong 钱塘境钱塘宫 contains the altar of the Anrenshê 安仁社. The temple has a front and a back hall, and is the main overall temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. A stele from Tongzhi 1 (1862) and a record of ritual sacrifices to the gods have been preserved. Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is housed in a niche above the altar, the central alter is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The right altar: Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Qianhuangjing Fulin xinggong 前黄境绂麟行宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 (Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人). The left altar: Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘, Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘, Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Erwei haier 二位 孩儿, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. On the front altars of the temple are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 3) Yilantan 旖兰坛 is in Houhuang 后厝 and is dedicated to Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘, Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘 and Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Weicuo Zheng 尾厝郑 take the incense burners of the temple to carry out the Dao 行道 in their neighborhood. On 1/11 the Qiancuo Lin前厝林 do the same. On 1/12 the Dapo Huang and Lin 大坡黄, 林 do the same. On 1/13 the Geqiao Wu, Zhuo, Zeng, Chen, and Huang 隔桥吴, 卓, 曾, 陈, 黄 do the same. On 1/14 the Houcuo Lin 后厝林 do the same as well. On 1/16 the villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福, and take the gods in palm sedan chairs and leap through a bonfire. Daoists are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 of the village are selected by drawing lots. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Qiancuo 前厝 performs opera for two days. Each year there is an intercalary month, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 go on a procession throughout the entire sevenfold (actually nine) village alliance. 5/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The entire village sponsors opera performances for two days. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The entire village sponsors opera performances for two days. 9/6: The celebration of Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. Opera is performed for two days in Houcuo 后厝. 9/26: The celebration of Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘 and Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘. Opera is performed for two days in Houcuo 后厝. 
V494 Xiacheng 下澄 1. Village settlement Xicheng was originally called Xiading 下丁. The village of Xiacheng has over 400 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, supplemented by raising eels, stone-cutting, and women working in shoe factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in the village are the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Zheng 郑. The Wu moved to the village from Wutang Youqiaotou 梧塘游桥头. 3. Village temples 1) Xaichengjing Longpo lishê 下澄境龙坡里社 was restored in 1992. The main gods on the central altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Cai daren 蔡大人. 2) Baodingtang 保定堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (Zhonglie dayuanshuai 忠烈大元帅) and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Zongdean 宗德庵 was built in 1990, and is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo 韦陀, right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, who go on a tour of inspection procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the third month, on a day determined by divination, a celebration of Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 is held and the first opera of the year is performed for two days . 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. In the ninth month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 

V495 Xiagao 下高 1. Village settlement The village of Xiagao has a population of 410 people. The main livelihood is farming, but many young women work in shoe factories. In the struggles between the banner alliances, the village first was neutral (red banner), but later tended towards the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups There are four main surnames in the village, the Wei 魏, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, and the Zheng 郑. The Lin claim to descend from the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. The Chen 陈 moved to the village from Anren Xiajiang 安仁霞江. 3. Village temples 1) Xiagaojing Longposhê 下高境龙波社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Linshui furen 临水夫人. 2) Zixiadian 紫霞殿 was rebuilt in 1942 and is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 and Tiankui yuanshuai 天魁元帅. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗. Right altar: Zhuogong shenghou 卓公圣侯 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back from heaven and opera is performed for two days. On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君 go on a procession around the village. Five Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year four Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility for the ritual activities of the year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and opera is performed for two days. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and each time every person in the village provides 3 yuan. 
A110 Shuanggu sancun (Shanggu three-village ritual alliance) 双福三村 The Shuangfu three village ritual alliance 双福三村 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北 大沟. This region originally belonged to the Ketang Shangguo pu 柯塘上 郭舖 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Qing dynasty, the villages of Shangguo 上郭, Qianting 前亭 and Ketang 柯塘 and Shucan 书仓 (Yuzuang 俞庄) were settled. These villages are now managed by the Shuangfu 双福 and Ketang Administrative Villages 柯塘二行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of settlements and lineage into a three village ritual alliance. The Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 of Qianting 前亭 is the founding shê altar 祖社 for the three village alliance. The Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 (founding shê) is also called the Mazugong 妈祖宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The temple was first built in Qing Daoguang 28 (1848), and has been rebuilt in recent years. The founding shê has branched out into four second generation shê, each named for one of the directions: the eastern Dongshê 东社 is in the villages of Yuzhuang 俞庄, the western Xishê 西社 is in Ketang 柯塘, the southern Nanshê 南社 is in Qianting 前亭, and the northern Beishê 北社 belongs to the Guo lineage of Beigang 北港郭氏. Currently, because the population of Yuzhuang has diminished, the eastern shê 东社 no longer is extant. In addition, Shangguo 上郭 village, which originally belonged to the Xianyinshê 显应社 system, currently is participates in the ritual activities of the Xingfushê 兴福社 instead. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in turn goes on procession to the Xingfu zushê to invite the gods. On 1/9–10, Qianting 前亭 invites the gods. On 1/9–11, Shangguo 上郭 invites the gods. On 1/13–15, Ketang 柯塘 invites the gods. On 1/16, the Xingfu founding zushê 兴福祖社 holds a general Yuanxiao celebration, and each village takes turns sponsoring opera and Daoist ritual masters are invited to the founding shê to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. On the occasion of each god’s birthday celebration (i.e., 2/23–25 for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣; 3/23–25 for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母; and 9/28–10/4 for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人), each village takes turns sponsoring opera at the temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Shuangfu were part of the red banner alliance. 
V496 Shangguo 上郭 1. Village settlement Shangguo was originally called Shangge 上阁. Shangguo is part of the Shuangfu Administrative Village 双福行政村. The village has a population of approximately 1000 people living in about 200 households. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by fishing, and local shipping. Formerly, when holding dragon boat races, the village hoisted a red banner, indicating neutrality in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The sole surname in the village is Guo 郭. Up to the nineteenth generation, the Guo lineage still lived in Weitang Guozhuang 魏塘郭庄. Only in the 20th generation did some members of the lineage move to Shangge 上阁 (Shangguo 上郭). Nowadays, there are Guo surname groups in several nearby villages such as Shangguo 上郭, Beigang 北港, Zhu- zhuang 朱庄, and Qianting 前亭. There is a Guo ancestral hall where various lineage branches return to reassemble the linage. 3. Village temples 1) Shanggejing Xianyingmiao 上阁境显应庙 is the main overall temple of Shangguo 上郭 and is also the main temple of the Guo lineage in Beigang village 北港郭氏总宫. The temple was built in the Ming, and rebuilt in the Qing Qianlong and Daoguang periods. It was restored in 1983. The temple preserves stelae from Qing Qianlong 57 (1792) and Daoguang 16 (1836). The main altar is dedicated to: Imperially enfeoffed Zunzhu mingwang 敕封尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘. To the left is Yingji houwang 英济侯王 and to the right Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The temple also preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 50 (1785) entitled 显应庙社租序 (Preface on the rents contributed to the Temple and Shê-altar of Manifest Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:260, No. 223). 2) Fengshan zumiao 凤山祖庙 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. To the left are Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, and Song yuanshuai 宋元帅. To the right are Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Zhong yuanshuai 钟元帅, Yang yuanshuai 杨元帅, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The temple plaque is from Qing Guangxu 10 (1884). 3) Jianhu shuyuan 鉴湖书院 was built in Qing Qianlong 58 (1793), and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. To the left is Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and to the right Luer baomu 鹿儿 保母. 4) Chuanmingting 传名亭 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang daye 张大爷, Sun erye 孙二爷 and Ma jiangjun 马将军. 5) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Tiandijun xinshi 天地君新师. On the left is Liang Puyao 梁普耀 and on the right Chen Zhida 陈志达. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records forty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, five palm sedan chairs are prepared for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘 who go on a procession around the village, assisted by the former year’s Fushou 老福首. On 1/16 the villages take turns hosing the general Yuanxiao celebration at the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社. The set up elaborate food displays at the Xingyingmiao 显应庙 and invite five Daoist ritual master to hold a jiao ritual 做醮, assisted by the newly selected Fushou 新福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/26: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The celebration of Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王. The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Yingji houwang 英济侯王 and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘. 4/20: The celebration of Zhang daye 张大爷. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅诞辰. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 10/10: Xiayuan pudu Lanpen 下元普度兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 at the Sanyitang 三一堂. Marionette plays are performed. Funding is by voluntary contributions. 5. Rituals Groups The village Three in One temple, the Sanyitang 三一堂, has already transformed into a village temple. 2/4: 2/23: 2/25: 3/6: 
V497 Qianting 前亭 1. Village settlement Qianting village is a part of the Shuangfu Administrative Village 双福行政村. The population of Qianting village has approximately 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Weng 翁 are the dominant surname group. There are also two households of the Yu 俞 surname. There used to be a village nearby called Yuzhuang 俞庄, but it has been abandoned, and the Yu have spread out and moved elsewhere. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantingjing Tongxianmiao 前亭境通显庙 contains the altar of the Xingfu nanshê (southern she) 兴福南社. On the central altar are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (martial version), and Penggong yuanshuai 彭公 元帅. On the left altar is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Of the right altar is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (civil version). On the front altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) 明道堂 Mingdaotang is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 are invited to go on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night there is a procession around the village boundaries of lanterns. On 1/10 the gods of Tongxianmiao 通显庙 are invited to go on procession around the village, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/16 the villages take turns hosting the general Yuanxiao celebration at the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社. They invite five Daoist ritual master to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. On a day determined by divination, between 1/30 and 2/2, the village celebrates Toufu 头福, the day of beginning good fortune. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The village Three in One temple is the Mingdaotang 明道堂. Regular rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V498 Ketang 柯塘 1. Village settlement Ketang village belongs to the Ketang Administrative Village 柯塘行政村. The village of Ketang has a population of over 1300 people. Ketang is divided into three neighborhoods: Xizhi 西置, Houpai 后 牌, and Oulincheng 欧林埕. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by local shipping. 2. Surname groups Huang 黄 and the Cai 蔡 are the dominant surname groups. There are also households surnamed the Li 李, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, the Ou 欧, and the Lin 林. The Huang came from Huangan (Huangxiang) in Hanjiang 涵江黄岸(黄巷) and live in Xizhi 西置. The Cai came from Nanpo Xialin village 南坡下林村 and live in Houpai 后牌, where then originally had fourteen large compound houses. The Li came from Duotou in Hanjiang 涵江哆头 and have only four households. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: The Beijidian 北极殿 was restored in 1981 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left mural: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. Right mural: Baban 八班. The Nuo office altar 傩神公案 is for Li jiangjun 李将军. 2) Ketangjing Xingfu xishê 柯塘境兴福西社 was rebuilt in Qing Guangxu 34 (1908), and restored in the early Republican period, in 1984 and in 2000. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. On the left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. In the Niangma gong 娘妈宫: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Xingyundong 兴云洞 was founded in the early Republican period, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, left Generals 左将军. 4) Ciyungong 慈云宫 is dedicated to Xusheng tianfei 许圣天妃. 5) Nantiangong 南天宫 is in Xingcuoli 新厝里 and is dedicated to Li shengmu 李圣母. Chen daren 陈大人 and Xu daren 徐大人. 6) Meilanxuan 梅兰轩 is in Xincuoli 新厝里 and is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, On left and right are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lan daren 兰大人 and Xu daren 徐大人. 7) 绍本堂 Shaobentang is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records eighty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 The Huang of Xizhi 西置角 黄 invite the gods of the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社 to go on a tour of inspection procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Lanterns are taken on a procession. On 1/13, the god is returned to the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On 1/14 the Cai of Houpai 后牌角蔡 invite the gods of the Xingfu xishê 兴福 西社 to go on a tour of inspection procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Lanterns are taken on a procession. On 1/15 the god is returned to the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On 1/16 the neighborhoods take turns hosting the general Yuanxiao at the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On a day between 1/30– 2/2 determined by divination, the village celebrates toufu 头福, beginning good fortune. Three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 who are taken on a procession through the entire village. Spirit mediums 神童 chonghua 冲花 (lit: showering flowers—of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman Candle firework) and perform fire walking 踏火. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/5: The celebration of Xincuoli 新厝里 Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/26: The celebration of Xincuoli 新厝里 Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8/15: The celebration of Xusheng tianfei 许圣天妃. 8: 23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/25: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/28: The celebration of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/28: The celebration of Zhuangshi furen 张氏夫人. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The Xingfu xishê 兴福西社 Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and the Li jiangjun 李将军 of Beijidian 北极殿 each possesses a different spirit medium, all of whom perform exorcistic dances 行儺 during the Yuanxiao festival. The village Three in One temple is called the Shaobentang 绍本堂 and is in Xincuoli 新厝里. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A111 Xianying shijing (Xianying ten territory ritual alliance) 显应十境 The Xianying ten territory ritual alliance is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Weitangpu 魏塘舖 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Weitang 魏塘 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Guozhuang 郭庄, Qianzhuang 前庄, Guanqian 关前, Houxu 后许, Zhutoupu 锄头埔, Yangchijiao 洋池角, Houting 厚亭, Zhuangli 庄里, and Qiangang 前港 separated off. Currently this area is managed by Xianying 显应 and Dongdun Administrative Villages 东墩二行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of village settlements into the eastern five village alliance 东五境 and the western five-village alliance 西五境 Villages included in the eastern alliance are Xigang 西港, Zhuangcuo 庄厝, Yangchi 洋池, Houting 后亭, and Xiayang 下洋. The western alliance includes Weitang 魏塘, Guozhuang 郭庄, Dongdun 东墩, Puqian 铺前, and Xiayu 下宇. The Xianyingmiao 显应庙 (also called the Great Shê 大社) of Weitang village 魏塘 is the main temple of the ten village ritual alliance 十境总宫. The Rendeli Xianyingmiao 仁德里显应庙, known as the Great shê-altar 大社, originally had three halls, but later it was torn down and the site was converted into the Xianying Elementary School. In 1983, Yangong taishi 杨公太师 appeared in a dream to the director of the temple management committee Guo Jinguang, who fortuitously encountered some Singapore Overseas Chinese revisiting their home village, and with their help and that of the villagers of the ten village alliance, the temple was rebuilt, and then later it was expanded in 1993. Currently the temple has a front and a back hall. A plaque in the temple dates to the Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816). According to local legend, the god of the temple was repeatedly bestowed with imperial honors and enfeoffments. In the Song, he was enfeoffed Huwei jiangjun 护卫将军, and in the Yuan, his spouse was enfeoffed as Gaoming Zhangshi furen 诰命张氏夫人. In the Ming she was honored as Ciji huanghou 慈济皇侯. The main god is Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (here understood as being the Shêgong 社公) and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (the Shêma 社妈). On the left are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and the Guchuan xianling sanwei zhongjun, 古传显灵三位中军 (Xiao 萧, Ni 倪, and Wang 王). On the left Xianying ten jing ritual alliance are the smaller statues of the gods that go out on procession at Yuanxiao processions Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Shengzishen 圣子神, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Weigong taibao 魏公太保, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. In the hall on the left is the Lufu 鲁府, dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Lubu zhongjun 鲁部中军, and before the altar is the Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. This hall has a plaque dating from Qing Xianfeng 2 (1852). In the right hand hall, called the Hongrenci 弘仁祠, one finds Huang daye 黄大爷, Li daye 李大爷, Xiedaye 谢大爷, and Yahan zhongjun 亚汉中军. From 1/8–16, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 take turns visiting each household on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/17 all the gods return to the temple, and Daoist masters conduct a jiao. In the fourth lunar month the birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated, and each village in the alliance takes turns sponsoring opera. On 5/5, the celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. On 7/7, the celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. On 6/2, the celebration of Weigong yuanshuai is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. At this time, a procession is held around the ten village ritual alliance. In the eighth lunar month the birthday of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 is held and each village in the alliance sponsors opera at the main temple. Historically, the Guo lineage of Weitang 魏塘郭氏 were a prominent local lineage. In Song Shaoxing 13 (1143) and in the Yuan Zhizheng period (1341– 68), a Xiaozi 孝子 (filial son) memorial archway was set up in their honor. A stone inscription composed in Qiandao 1 (1165) by Lin Guanchao 林光朝 entitled 郭氏旌表门闾记 (Record of the ceremonial archway of Guo [the Filial Son]) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:25, No. 23) details the miraculous filiality of the founding ancestor. The stone inscription composed in Dade 5 (1301) by Huang Zhongyuan 黄仲元 entitled 孝节郭公祠堂记 (Record of the Shrine to the Honorable Guo, the Filial and Upright) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:59, No. 52) is also about this ancestral shrine. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Xianying ten village alliance was part of the red banner alliance. 
V499 Weitang 魏塘 1. Village settlement The village of Weitang has a population of over 800 people living in approximately 180 household. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname group is by far the dominant surname in the village, but there are also one household each surnamed 方 and Xu 徐. The Chen moved to the village from Dongyang 东阳 near Putian city, and are the Fushan Chen 浮山陈氏. Their ancestral hall is called the Shishi yuci 世侍御祠 and in it are worshipped painted images of seven ancestors. According to legend, the ancestors of the Chen came to Fujian at the end of the Tang during the Huangchao 黄巢 rebellion from Gushi in Henan 河南固始县. Originally they lived in Fengting in Xianyou 仙游 枫亭. A third generation Chen won first place in the imperial exams, and in the fourth generation, they moved to Hezhai 灵川何寨 in Lingchuan. In their eighth generation they lived in Xialin near Putian city 莆田下林村, and at that time in three generations they produced five jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) 三代五进士. At the end of the Song, the 13th generation Chen escaped disorder by moving to Dongyang 东阳 east of the Putian walled city. In the Ming Yongle period, the 20th generation Chen Mengyu 陈孟玉, now known as the founding ancestor Master Shaocun 少村公, moved to Weitang and built the Shishi yuci 世侍御祠 lineage hall. The Chen have now reached their 27th generation. Another legend states that the Guo 郭 of Xianying 显应 produced an exemplar of filial piety in the Song dynasty, and that an imperially bequeathed shrine was built for him. Unfortunately, a later descendant offended the court and in order to escape the punishment of death to all relatives to the third degree, many Guo changed their name to Wei 魏 and took Weigong Taibao 魏公太保 as a protector spirit 保护神, and so the village name was changed to Weitang 魏塘. The remaining Guo families in the village have moved to Shangguo 上郭 village. 3. Village temples 1) Rendeli Weitangjing Xianying xishê 仁德里魏塘境 显应西社 is dedicated to Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (Shêgong 社公) and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (Shêma 社妈). On the left are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. On the right are smaller statues used in processions of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Weigong taibao 魏公太保, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 16 (1836) entitled 重建显应社题 捐碑 (Stele on the contributors to the reconstruction of the earth god temple of Manifest Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:304, No. 268). 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Zongming shuyuan 宗明书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) 庆化堂 Qinghutang is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 in the afternoon, the villagers go the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 out on a procession. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/14 a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort the gods of the Xianying dashê. Early in the second lunar month, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held, and the gods of the Xianying xishê 显应西社 are invited out to perform an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 6/2: The celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 is held. 8/3: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Rituals Groups The Three in One temple is called the Zongming shuyuan 宗明书院, and it holds rituals every 1st and 15th of each month. A Buddhist nunnery called the Qinghutang 庆化堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 and also holds Buddhist rites. 
V500 Guozhuang 郭庄 1. Village settlement Guozhuang village was originally called Guocang 郭仓. The village has a population of approximately 800 people living in 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, but many men work in construction and many young women work in shoe factories. The level of education is high in this village, which has a number of foreign Ph.D.s to its credit. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Guo 郭. It is said that the Guo of the village came to Fujian from Gushi district in Henan province 河南固始. First they moved to Xianyou 仙游, and later moved to Xianying 显应. The founding ancestor in the village was Guo Yizhong 郭义重. Subsequently, the lineage divided into six branches, with Guozhang 郭庄 as the direct line of the eldest son 长房. The other branches are in Xiayu 下宇, Ketang 柯塘, Jiangdong 江东, Huazhong 华中, Qinyuan Houlin 沁园后林, and Qibu Zhuxiang 七步朱巷. Formerly there was an ancestral hall in Guozhuang but it no longer exists. The lineage is in the twelfth generation since their ancestor, the Qing dynasty figure, Guo Dianqing 郭殿卿, attained his Jinshi degree (Metropolitan Graduate). Local legend claims that Guzhuang 郭庄 is the home of the parents of Guo Yizhong 郭义重, a Song paragon of virtue who received a sign from Heaven confirming his filial piety, and for whom the court had a shrine built. In recent years, various branches of the Guo lineage from Hui’an 惠安 to Henan 河南 have visited Guozhuang to confirm its importance to the history of the lineage within Fujian. These efforts received government approval in 1985. Other legends link Guzhuang village with the landholdings of the Guo lineage, and suggest that the parents of GuoYizhong had hidden there to avoid implication in the crimes of another lineage member. 3. Village temples 1) Baoxingmiao 宝兴庙 is divided into the main hall and a side hall. The main hall is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Jingong daren 金公大人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The side hall is a Lufu 鲁府, and is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 villagers go to the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On 1/14–15 after completing a tour of inspection procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, the gods are escorted back to Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/26–27, there is a procession of gods in the village, performances of opera, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: A celebration for all the gods 文武诸神 is held. 8/10: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 