V501 Dongdun 东墩 1. Village settlement The village of Dongdun has a population of approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into seven neighborhoods: Houtian 后田, Touqian 头前, Xuesheng 学盛, Kutou 堀头, Jindian 锦店, Xiadongdun 下东墩, and Dali 搭里. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by fishing. The village has two dragon boats, and raises a red banner during races. 2. Surname groups The Tian 田 are the dominant surname, with some 230 households There are also some households surnamed the Chen 陈, the Zeng 曾, the Cao 曹, the Shen 沈, and the Weng 翁. The Tian moved to the village from Zhongmen 忠门. Originally there was a Tian ancestral hall, but it has been converted into the village old persons association 老人协会. 3. Village temples 1) Dongdunjing Xianying xishê 东墩境显应西社 contains the Zhongxiaotan 忠孝坛, and was restored in 1989. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, To the right is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baifu daren 白府大人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Further left are Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, and further right are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. 2) Zhongxiaotan 忠孝坛 is linked to the Yunshuidian 云水殿 and is dedicated to a Nuo exorcistic god 傩神, and to Shi jiangjun 施将军 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Mingqingtang 明清堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 record thirty-six initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, in the afternoon, villagers go the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 out on a procession. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/17 a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders sends off the gods of the Xianying dashê. Early in the second lunar month, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Deng yuanshuai 邓元帅, Leixin puhua tianzun 雷心普化天尊, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances 6/2: The celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no organized tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association. However, there are several spirit mediums in their 50s who are possessed by the following gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Deng yuanshuai 邓元帅, Leixin puhua tianzun 雷心普化 天尊, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shi jiangjun 施将军. These men usually work outside the village, and only return at Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods in order to take part in xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. At these times, they recite invocations of the gods until the god possesses them. The village Three in One temple is called the Mingqingtang 明清堂. It holds rites on the 1st and 15th of each month. 
V502 Puqian 铺前 1. Village settlement Puqian was originally called Chutoupu 锄头铺 or Puqian 埔前. The village of Puqian has a population of over 450 people, living in about 110 households. The main livelihood in farming, although are carpenters, construction workers, or workers in lacquer or shoe factories. The old imperial postal route went through this village. From Dingpu 顶铺 in Hanjiang 涵江 to Puqian 莆田 was the space of one pu (police/defense unit), thus Puqian got its name. The village was a red banner village in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Yao 姚. It is said the first Yao ancestor to enter Fujian 福建, founding ancestor Master Tianming 天明, was a man of Gushi 固始 district in Henan 河南, who attained his Jinshi Metropolitan Graduate status in Tang Qianning 4 (897). In Guanghua 1 (898), he took a post as Magistrate of Houguan 侯官, and later settled in Shaoxi in Putian 莆田韶溪, near the border between Jiangkou 江口 and Fuqing 福清. His descendants divided into three lineage branches, called Meng 孟, Zhong 仲, and Ji 季. The direct first born branch settled in Cixi near Ningbo in Zhejiang 浙江宁波慈溪. The second branch subdivided into three more branches: The Chaozhang 朝璋, Chaosi 朝嗣 and Chaogui 朝 圭. The fourteenth generation descendant of the Chaozhang 朝璋 branch moved to Yangshan 畅山, while the Chaosi 朝嗣 branch descendents moved to Hanjiang Puqian 涵江铺前, Jianqian 鉴前 and Xitianwei Chengzhu 西天 尾澄渚, Houhuang 后黄, Donghuang 东黄 and Xiafuxiang 下府巷 in Putian city. The third branch moved to Hanjiang Anren 涵江安仁 and Qinyuan 沁园. The Qinyuan 沁园 branch has already reached the 32nd generation, and in 1989 they built the Zhongqin daxiaoci 忠沁大孝祠 ancestral hall, and edited a Yao lineage genealogy. The Hanjiang 涵江 Tangbei 塘北 Elementary school is located in the Yao ancestral hall, and one can still see a Qianlong period plaque there. Puqian 铺前 originally had a Yao ancestral hall, but it no longer survives. The tomb of the 16th generation ancestor of the Yao lineage is in the foothills of the Shipan 石盘 mountains in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Rendeli Puqianjing Yunfengtang 仁德里铺前境云 峰堂 was built in Qing Xuantong 3 (1911). In 1982 new god statues were carved and in 1990 the temple was restored. In front of the temple is a large canal, which is said to contain the lair of a Carp spirit. The main altar is dedicated to Jinfu daren 金府大人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To the left are Sanwei xianshi 三位仙师 and to the right Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. An altar in the temple is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and is used for spirit writing, and exorcisms. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to organize the rituals. Two elders are called the Datou 大头 and the two unmarried ones are called the xiaotou 小头. Usually a single Daoist master is invited from Zhenqian 镇前 to conduct rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The celebration for Jinfu daren 金府大人. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/28: The celebration for Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance were revived at the end of the 1970’s and in the early 1980’s. The Lanpen 兰盆 ritual was performed again, once every three years, on 10/29. 5. Ritual Groups The village has a spirit medium who is possessed by Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣君, and who can transmit spirit writing 扶乩 and perform exorcistic dance 行儺. 
V503 Xigang 西港 1. Village settlement Xigang was originally called Qiangang 前港. The village of Xigang has over 400 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 surname group is the dominant group. There are also the minor surnames Chen 陈 and Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing Xianying dongshê 钱江境显应东 社, also contains the Xianyinggong 显应宫. The temple originally was the Dafuci 大夫祠 ancestral hall of the Huang lineage 黄氏. In 1958 it was torn down and turned into a pig breeding station. Recently it has been rebuilt as a temple. The main altar is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The front altar is for Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Zongyutang 宗裕堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 in the afternoon, villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/10 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/22, at the end of the Yuanxiao period, the village organizes a chonghua 冲花 ritual (lit: showering flowers—of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman candle firework). Spirit mediums from nearby villages are invited to compete in tests of endurance and to perform exorcistic dances (行儺) . Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. In the eighth lunar month on a day determined by divination villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are no Daoist ritual masters in the village, but there are spirit mediums who are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. They perform exorcistic dances, xingnuo 行傩, during the Yuanxiao festival. The village Three in One temple is called the Zongyutang 宗裕堂. Rituals are held on the 1st and 15th of each month. 
V504 Zhuangcuo 庄厝 1. Village settlement Zhuangcuo was originally called Zhuangli 庄里. The village of Zhuangcuo has over 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The main surname group are the Lin 林. There are also some households surnamed Zeng 曾 and Shen 沈. 3. Village temples 1) Zhuangcuojing Dongyuandian 庄厝境东元殿 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. To the right is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Mingqingtang 明清堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 in the afternoon, villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/13 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/28–29, at the end of the Yuanxiao period, the village organizes a chonghua 冲花 ritual (lit: showering flowers of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman candle firework). Spirit mediums from nearby villages are invited to come to Zhuangcuo 庄厝 to compete in tests of endurance and to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 7/28: villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups This village has no organized tanban 坛班 altar association or Daoist ritual masters. There are spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed by Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. On Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods in they take part in xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. At these times, they recite invocations of the gods until the god possesses them. The village Sanyijiao temple is called the Mingqingtang 明清堂, and there are rituals held on the first and fifteenth of every month. 
V505 Yangchi 洋池 1. Village settlement Yangchi was originally called Yangchijiao 洋池角. Yangchi village has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. The Lin 林 and the He 何 are minor surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Yangchijing qingyundian 洋池境青云殿 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Sanwei guniang 三位姑娘. To the right are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军, and Sanwei daye 三位大爷. 2) Qingdediang 清德殿 was built in recent years. The temple is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Sanwei guniang 三位姑娘, Daye 大爷 and Erye二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社 公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/11 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 8/2: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. 8/5: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V506 Xiayang 下洋 1. Village settlement Xiayang village has a population of 227 people. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the major surname group. The He 何 are the minor surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing Xianying zushê 钱江境显应祖社 was originally the founding shê altar of the entire ten village ritual alliance 十境 祖社, but now belongs to the eastern five village ritual alliance. The temple is dedicated to Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Yaochici 瑶池祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records forty-two initiates. 3) Shandeci 善德祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records fifty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 in the afternoon, together with Houting village 后亭村, villagers go to their own Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/9 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On 2/2, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 and the Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 9/3: The celebration of the Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and the Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 of Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a spirit medium in the village who is possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods he performs xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. 
V507 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting was originally called Houting 厚亭. The village of Houting has approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 are the main surname group in the village. There are also minor surname groups of the Chen 陈 and the Zeng 曾. The Wu moved from Putian city, and it is said that they were originally sent here to look after the gravesites of the Wu lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Houtingjing Ruiyun zumiao 后亭境瑞云祖庙 is shared jointly with Xiayang village 下洋村. The temple is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shitai daoren 石胎道人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 in the afternoon, together with Xiayang village 下洋村, the villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/17 in the evening, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On 2/2, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 and the Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 8/24: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V508 Xiayu 下宇 1. Village settlement Xiayu was originally called Xiaxu 下许. The village of Xiayu has over 100 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname group This village is a mixed surname village. This is called “in seven households there are eight surnames and nine widows” 七户八姓 九寡妇. Currently the following surnames can be found in the village: the Zeng 曾, the You 游, the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘, the He 何, the Guo 郭, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xiayujing Xianyinggong 下宇境显应宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. To the right is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baifu daren 白府大人, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 in the afternoon, the villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/16 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
A112 Anren qijing (Anren sevenfold ritual alliance) 安仁七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Anren 安仁六村 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Nijiang Beigangpu 霓江北港舖 and the Lidunpu 利墩舖 (police/defense unit) of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Qing the villages of Beigang 北港 (also known as Xixu 西徐), Zhoudun 周墩, Xiajiang 下江, and Tiancen 田岑 were settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Xiafang 下方 and Jiakou 加口 separated off. Currently there are six natural villages managed by the Anren Administrative Village 安仁行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Anren zushê 安仁祖社 of Beigang 北港 is the founding shê altar of the six village ritual alliance七境祖社. The main gods are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (Shêgong 社公), Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (Shêma 社妈) and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the villages of the alliance goes to the temple to invite the gods to their village. It is said that formerly a joint, general Yuanxiao was celebrated at the temple, but collective rites and processions have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the end fo the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Anren was part of the red banner alliance. 
V509 Beigang 北港 1. Village settlement Beigang includes Xixu 西徐. The village population is approximately 800 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by working in construction. During dragon boat races, a red banner is raised. 2. Surname groups There are four main surname groups in the village, the Zhang 张, Chen 陈, Li 李, and the Guo 郭. The Guo moved to the village from Shangguo 上郭, and ever since have participated as a unit in the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 ritual activities. The village still has three incense burners 三社炉 inscribed with the names of the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. Each year each surname selects one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Anren zushê 安仁祖社 is the founding shê altar of the ritual alliance. The statues of the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 of Xixu 西徐 and Xiafang 下坊 are kept in this temple as well. On the main altar are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To left and right are the Xixujing 西徐境 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Xiakangjing 霞康境 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qingliantan 青莲坛 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, and the Li 李 Fushou 福首 each carry their shê-altar incense burners around the village. Each surname group receives the incense burners in their ancestral houses. That evening there is fire walking and opera. On 1/22, the Anren zushê 安仁祖社, together with Xiafang 下坊 village, invites Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on an exorcistic procession 行傩. The spirit medi- ums 神童 of each village are invited to 采花 (pick the flower flames) and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The Fushou 福首 organize these events, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Anren zushê 安 仁祖社 possesses a spirit medium 神童, who, on Yuanxiao, performs exorcistic dances 行傩. 
V510 Zhoudun 周墩 1. Village settlement Zhoudun has a population of approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by construction work. They raise a red banner during dragon boat races. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Wu 吴. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age to serve as organizers and hosts for the rituals of the year. Those men 58 and above are considered village elders 乡老. 3. Village temples 1) Zhoudunjing Anren nanshê 周墩境安仁南社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. To the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, to the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. To the left and right are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house 祖厝大厅. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/13 the gods are invited back to the shê temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封 路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns 乞火. On 1/26, the last night of Yuanxiao, the first opera of the year is performed 演 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 go out on an exorcistic procession 行儺. The spirit mediums from neighboring villages are invited to “gather fire-flowers” 神童采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/9: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 11/7: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, and the rituals are organized and hosted by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Yongxingtang 永兴堂 possess spirit mediums 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩 at Yuanxiao. 
V511 Xiajiang 下江 1. Village settlement Xiajiang village is also known as Xiaan 下安. The village population is approximately 800 people living in about 150 households. Farming is the main livelihood. 2. Surname groups The Fang 方 make up 80 households and the Chen 陈 make up 60 households. The Fang 方 are part of the Liugui Fang lineage 六桂方氏, and moved from Xitianwei 西天尾. The Chen 陈 claim to be part of the Yingshui Chen 颖水陈, and moved to Xiajinag village from Dongyang 东阳 outside Putian 莆田. They are thus part of the same lineage as the Xiagao Chen 下高陈 and the Jiangkou Xiadun Chen 江口下墩陈. There was originally a Chen ancestral hall but it is no longer extant. 3. Village temples 1) Xiajiangjing Anren dongshê 霞江境安仁东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the left and right are Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2) Chaoxiagong 朝霞宫 was built in Qing Jiaqing period ( 1796–1820), and was rebuilt in 1993. The temple preserves a Qing Jiaqing 20 (1815) carved couplet on two pillars, and a Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816) plaque. On the main altar are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To the left is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, to the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Zhibentang 至本堂 was rebuilt in 1987 and is dedicated to Fanxiang xianshi 范相仙师. On the left is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and on the right Kong daren 孔大人. 4) Jingyi shuyuan 精一书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, four palm sedan chairs are prepared for Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, who are taken on a procession around the village. Four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners. On 1/18 in the evening, opera is performed, and a procession is held around the village boundaries, and lanterns are paraded. Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 leads the exorcistic procession 行傩 and there is firewalking 踏火. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and three Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮祈福. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. In the eighth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the Fushou 福首 and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 11/5 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed by the Three in One Scripture masters of the Jingyitang 精一堂. 5. Ritual Groups The Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Chaoxiagong 朝霞宫 possesses spirit medium 神童, who performs exorcistic dances 行儺 during Yuanxiao. The village Three in One temple is called the Jingyi shuyuan 精一书院 or the Jingyitang 精一堂. This temple branched off from Huangan Xipo 黄安西坡, and was established by Liang Puyao 梁普耀. On the main altar is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left is Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, and to the right Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. There are over 45 initiates in the temple, who perform twice daily recitations of the Chashuijing 茶水经 and bi-monthly (first and fifteenth) recitations of the Bentijing 本体经 and the Sinijing 四尼经. 
V512 Xiafang 下坊 1. Village settlement Xiafang is also called Xiakang 霞康. The village population is approximately 300 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the dominant surname group, but there are a few Guo 郭 households. 3. Village temples Mingqinggong 名青宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left and right are Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Baban 八班, and Sijiang 四将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go to the Anren zushê 安仁祖社 to ask for incense fire 请香火 Then two Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession. Each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house in the village 祖厝大厅接驾 That night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. Daoist masters are invited to perform rites. On 1/26 the general Yuanxiao of 安仁祖社 is held. Together with Xixu village 西徐, Xiafang villagers invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to conduct an exorcistic dance 行傩. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flowerflames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/9: The celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅 is held. 9/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, and the events are hosted by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang duyuanshuai 黄 都元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Mingqinggong 名青宫 all possesa spirit mediums 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩 during Yuanxiao. 
V513 Jiakou 加口 1. Village settlement Jiakou village is also known as Gekou 隔口. The population of the village is about 300 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. Each year they each select Fushou 福首 in rotation of the basis of age. 3. Village temples 1) Gekoujing Anre zhongshê 隔口境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 3) Yuqingtang 裕庆堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 two Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners of the temple on procession. Each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house 祖厝大厅. That night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. Fushou 福首 organize the rituals, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Yuqingtang 裕庆堂 and it is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Daye 大爷. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V514 Tiancen 田岑 1. Village settlement The village of Tiancen has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The only surname in the village is the Chen 陈. They are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 who came from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口. The village has a Chen ancestral hall and it is there that each year three Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to look after the rituals of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Dengyingjing Anren zhongshê 登瀛境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Qingyigong 清溢宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. To left and right are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and on the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. On the right and left are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 6) Zhibentang 致本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house. Daoists are invited to perform rites. On 1/13 the gods are escorted back to the temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns for their homes 乞火. On 1/26 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Fushou 福首主持, Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Three in One temple in the village 三一教祠. 
A113 Changfu qijing (Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance) 长福七境 The Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance 长福七境 is located at the meeting point between the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂, and contains the Xingang Sluice-gate 新港 斗门. This area was part of the Lidunpu 利墩舖, the Gangweipu 港尾舖 and the Xingang Houzhengpu 新港后郑舖 (police/defense units) of Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the early Qing, the villages of Lidun 利墩, Kundun 崑墩, Shangzheng 上郑, Xinggnag 新港. Houzheng 厚郑, Gangbian 港边, and Gangwei 港尾 were all settled in this area. In the late Qing and early Republican period the village of Daduxia 大度下 separated off. These villages are all managed by the Zhoudun 周墩 and Jiangwei Administrative Villages 江尾行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Changfu zushê 长福祖社 located in Lidun 利墩 village is the founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境祖社. The Changfu zushê 长福祖 was built in the Ming Zhengde period (1506–1521) and collapsed in the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850). In 1991 it was rebuilt on its original foundations. The main altar is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the left and right are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Each year on 3/23, on the birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, the goddess is carried in a procession through all the seven villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. The ritual alliance includes the following seven shê-altars: the Lidun zushê 利墩祖社, the Xingang changfushê 新港 长福社, the Houzheng beishê 后郑北社, the Shangzheng xishê 上郑西社, the Dadu xiaxishê 大度下西社, the Jiangbian zhongshê 江边中社 and the Jiangwei dongshê 江尾东社. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Jiang bian 江边 and Jiangwei 江尾 were part of the white banner alliance, while all the other villages were part of the red banner alliance. 
V515 Lidun 利墩 1. Village settlement The village of Lidun has a population of 643 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 surname group is predominant in the village. Each year five Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the annual rituals. 3. Village temples 1) Lidunjing Changfu zushê 利墩境长福祖社 includes the Chongfugong 崇福宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To left and right are Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 (who divided off from the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫), Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (another name for the Shêgong 社公), and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (the Shêma 社妈). 2) Xinxingting 新兴亭 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人, known in this area as Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 both have spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed and perform exorcistic dance 行傩 during Yuanxiao and on the god’s birthdays. 
V516 Houzheng 后郑 1. Village settlement Houzheng is also known as Houzheng 厚郑. The population of Houzheng village is over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are by far the dominant surname group. There are also some households surnamed the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Houzhengjing Changfu beishê 后郑境长福北社 contains the Xingxiangong 兴显宫. The main altar is for Zhanggong sheng jun 张公圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left and the right are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Tiancifu 天慈府 is dedicated to Chen xiannü 陈仙女 and Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/3: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 both have spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed and perform exorcistic dance 行傩 during Yuanxiao and on the god’s birthdays. 
V517 Xingang 新港 1. Village settlement The village of Xingang has a population of over 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups including the Lin 林, the Zheng 郑, and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingangjing Changfushê 新港境长福社 includes the Xinxinggong 新兴宫. The main altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. To the left are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and to the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xianfudong 仙福洞 is dedicated to Li xianshi 李仙师 and Daye 大爷. 3) Liujitang 流寂堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 12/25: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V518 Daduxia 大度下 1. Village settlement The village of Daduxia has over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin, which has over two thirds of the village population, and maintains a Lin ancestral hall 林氏 祠堂. There are also some households surnamed Xu 许, etc. 3. Village temples 1) Xilinjing Changfu xishê 西林境长福西社 includes the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥 大将, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝诞辰. 9/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V519 Shangzheng 上郑 1. Village settlement The village of the Shangzheng has a population of over 170 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname. There are also households surnames the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Shangzhengjing Changfu xishê 上郑境长福西社 includes the Fuxinggong 福星宫. The temple branched off from Daduxia 大度下. On the main altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Changxingdian 长兴殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. To left and right are Wugong yuanshuai 吴公 元帅, Qianliyan 千里眼 and Shunfenger 顺风耳. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Each year with an intercalary month, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 goes on a procession throughout the entire sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 9/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V520 Jiangwei 江尾 1. Village settlement Jiangwei was originally called Gangwei 港尾. The village of Jiangwei has a population of over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. Originally many households made straw mats as a supplementary source of income. Nowadays most men work in construction and young women work in shoe factories. The village belonged to the white banner alliance in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname group. They are either Kuokou Chen 阔口陈 from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, in which case they are related to the Chen of Chenqiao village 陈桥陈, or they are the Shoushan Chen 寿山陈, who came from Shoushan 寿山. 3. Village temples 1) Meijiangjing Changfu dongshê 湄江境长福东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 2) Qingyunmiao 青云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. To the left and right are Chen daye 陈大爷, Zhou daye 周大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷, Li daye 李大爷, and Huang daye 黄大爷. 3) Xiatiandong 霞天洞 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To left and right are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Wu daren 乌大人. 4) Chilinan 赤林庵 was built in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–18, Yuanxiao is celebrated, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路, and three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. Bells are rung and drums are beaten until the spirit mediums are possessed by the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. The Fushou 福首 take turns taking care of the rituals. 
V521 Jiangbian 江边 1. Village settlement Jiangbian is also known as Gangbian 港边. The village of Jiangbian has a population of over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by laboring in construction. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. They moved to Jiangbian from Mendou 门兜 in Putian 莆田 city. They have divided into three lineage branches. They once had an ancestral hall but it has been converted into a school. 3. Village temples 1) Taojiangjing Changfu zhongshê 陶江境长福中社 was rebuilt in 1991. The main altar is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the left altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. On the right altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. In the left hall, the Xiashuitang 夏水堂, are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Daye 大爷. In the right hand hall, the Wanxingdian 万兴殿 are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Guangxiatang 光夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the general Yuanxiao festival is held and two spirit medium 神童 are possessed by the gods, and issue a proclamation from the gods 出榜. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. On some occasions up to five Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 take turns organizing the rituals. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a day in the 11th lunar month determined by divination by the Three in One initiates of the village who conduct the Lanpen 兰盆 rites. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Guangxiatang 光夏堂 and is also known as the Yuying shuyuan 毓英书院 was built in Qianlong 3.(1738) and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left and right are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A114 Chongsheng sanshê (Chongsheng three shê ritual alliance) 崇圣三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Chongsheng is located along the main channel diverting water from besides the Taiping Weir 太平陂, which lies across the upper reaches of the Qiulu river, to the north of the northern irrigated plain. This area was part of the Fenglin waipu 枫林外铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing, the villages of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, Hutoulin 虎头林, Nanshan 南山, Ganyan 柑园, Lingxia 岭下, Tingkeng 廷坑 and Duxia 度下 were settled. Currently these villages are managed by the Chongsheng Administrative Village 崇圣行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to shê-altars and temples into the three shê-altars of Fuxingshê 福兴社, Fuanshê 福安社 and Fuchongshê 福崇社. The Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 temple, located in Meilou 美楼 village, is the main temple for the three shê ritual alliance. The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year on lunar 1/15– 16 a collective Yuanxiao celebration is held by the three shê and the gods of the Chongshenggong are carried in procession to each of the shê altars of the alliance. 
V522 Meilou 美楼 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Chongshenggong 崇圣宫: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣候, Dujiao jiangjun 独角将军, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Fuxingshê 福兴社: this temple belongs to the villages of Meilou 美楼, Bannan 半南, Qiaozitou 桥仔头, Gonghou 宫后, Xiaban houkeng 下班后 坑, Songshê 宋社, Dachikou 大池口, Pinglingtou 坪岭头, and Waiduxia 外度下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, All the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebrations are organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V523 Chongshê 崇社 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Yu 俞. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Chongshengyuan 崇圣院 was rebuilt in 2002. The main god is Jialan sanbao 迦蓝三宝. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Pangu diwang 盘古帝王, Zhutian dadi 注天大帝, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is orga nized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V524 Waiduxia 外度下 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Qiu 邱. 3. Village temples Beitouan 陂头庵: The main god is Baima xianggong 白马相公. Secondary gods include Zuoyou jiangjun 左右将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongsheng gong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Fuxing shê 福兴社. 10/9: The birthday celebration of Baima jiangjun 白马将军. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V525 Songbaige 松柏戈 1. Village settlement There are thirty-three households in total in the village, with approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Fuanshê 福安社: This is the main shê altar of the villages of Songbaige 松柏戈 (Chen 陈), Lingxia 岭下 (Zeng 曾), Tianwei 田尾 (Li 李), Houan 后安 (Li 李), Fengting 枫亭 (Li 李), Banling 半岭 (Han 韩), Zhaili 宅里 (Huang 黄), and Yanli 晏里 (Huang 黄). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuanshê 福安社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This organized by the all the villages belonging to this shê altar all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V526 Ganyuan 柑园 1. Village settlement The village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangwu 上吴 and Xiawu 下吴. The total population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Fuchongshê 福崇社: This is the main shê altar of villages including Hulin 胡林 (Lin 林), Guoxi 过溪 (Lin 林), Xian 西安 (Lin 林), Chitou 池头 (Chen 陈), Ganyuan 柑园 (Wu 吴), Shancen 山岑 (Lian 连), Lingxia 岭下 (Li 李), Qiaozitou 桥仔头 (Li 李), Dingdapu 顶大埔 (Li 李), Xiadapu 下大埔 (Li 李), and Litang 利塘 (Huang 黄). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuchongshê 福崇社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuchongshê 福崇社. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A115 Lingci qijing (Lingci sevenfold ritual alliance) 灵慈七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingci is located along the main irrigation channel emerging from the Taiping Weir into the northern sector of the northern irrigated plain 太平陂下圳. This area was part of the Dongzhang shanhoupu 东张山后铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the Ming, the villages of Dongzhang 东张 and Hongdu 洪度 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Jiuqiu 九坵 and Houting 后 亭 divided off. In the late Qing and early Republican period, the villages of Nanshan 南山, Anjun 安君, Houkeng 后坑, Guocuo 郭厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Tiancuo 田厝 and Beicheng 北埕 separated off. These villages are managed by three Administrative Villages, namely Dongzhang 东张, Shuangting 双亭 and Hongshang 洪南行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. Lingcigong 灵慈宫 temple, located in Hongdu 洪度 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every twelve years, the goddess is carried on a procession through the villages of the alliance, as well as to nearby villages. Currently, Dongzhang 东张 has already detached itself from the sevenfold ritual alliance, so Dongzhang no longer participates in the year-round ritual activities of Lingcigong. Nonetheless, Dongzhang still takes part in the great procession of Mazu 妈祖 of Lingcigong that is held once every twelve years. The route for this procession is as follows: Yianshê 义安社, Fuanshê 福安社, Wananshê 万安社, Longshangong 龙山宫, Tongjishê 通济宫, Fushoushê 福寿社, Lingyinshê 灵隐社, Denglongshê 登龙社, Chongfutang 崇福堂, Wanlingong 万麟宫, and Xianggong fushê 香龙福社. 
V527 Nanshan 南山 1. Village settlement Nanshan is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangnan 上南 and Zhongnan 中南. The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zeng 曾, the Li 李, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Shi 施, and the Zhang 张. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Chongfushê 崇福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Chonglongshê 崇隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Shangnan 上南 invites all the gods of Chongfushê 崇福社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/10, Zhongnan 中南 invites all the gods of Chonglongshê 崇隆社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chongfushê 崇福社. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Chonglongshê 崇隆社 is held. On both these above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by each shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V528 Hongdu 洪度 1. Village settlement Hongdu is divided into two ritual territories: the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡 ritual territories. The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Lingcigong 灵慈宫 contains the Yi’anshê 义安社, Anfushê 安福社, Chongfuhe 崇福社, Baofushê 保福社, Chonglongshê 崇隆社, and Chongxingshê 崇兴社. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lingong shenghou 林公圣候, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣候. 2) Chongxingshê 崇兴社: This is the shê-altar of Kengtou 坑头, Dudong 度冬, Gongxia 宫下, Dinghoukeng 顶后坑, and Anjun 安君. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Wushangong 武山宫: The main god is Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 4) Zhenlingong 振麟宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 5) Qingyundian 庆云殿: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Ma Jia erjiangjun 马贾二将军. 6) Dongfangmiao 东方庙: The main god is Kusi dawang 库司大王. 7) Kengtousi 坑头寺: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo hufa 韦驮护法 and Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the Lingcigong 灵慈宫 welcomes the gods back from heaven 接神. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the temple, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On 1/12, all the gods of Chongxingshê 崇兴社 and Wushangong 武山宫 are invited to go on procession within the Caijing 蔡境. This is organized by the Cai 蔡, and funds are collected from amongst them on a per capita basis. On 1/13, all the gods of Chongxingshê 崇兴社, the Zhenlingong 振麟宫, and the Qingyundian 庆云殿 are invited to go on a procession within the Linjing 林境. This is organized by the Lin 林, and funds are collected from amongst them on a per capita basis. On all such occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chongxingshê 崇兴社. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This is organized by Xiating ritual jing 下亭境, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Movies are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Linjing 林境. 4/28: The birthday celebration of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 is organized by the Lingcigong 灵慈宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Lingcigong 灵慈宫 of Xiatingjing 下亭境. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Lin 林. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by Lingci gong 灵慈宫. 8/23 is the celebration of the Tuofan 脱凡 day of apotheosis of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Lin 林. The celebration for the day of ascension of Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 is organized by Lingcigong 灵慈宫. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Lingong shengjun 林公圣侯 is organized by the Xiatingjing 下亭境. On all these occasions, either opera is performed, or else marionette plays or movies are offered. Contributions are raised per capita, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites for the gods. 9/9: 
V529 Jiaqiu 九坵 1. Village settlement The total population of Jiaqiu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. There exists a Li ancestral hall 李氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 2) Xianshengdian 显圣殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, all the gods of Anfushê 安福社 are invited to go on procession within its village. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/26: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V530 Xiacuo 下厝 1. Village settlement Xiacuo is part of the Xiatingjing下亭境. The village includes Xiahouting 下后亭. The total population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Fulongmiao 绂龙庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianmingdian 显名殿: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Langong daren 蓝公大人, Jingong daren 金公大人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, all the gods of Xianmingdian 显名殿 are invited to go on procession within its village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the event all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of Baofushê 保福社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is all organized by the Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Opera and rituals are performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Opera and rituals are performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 Every second year, opera is performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê 保福社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V531 Guocuo 郭厝 1. Village settlement The total population of the village is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭 and the Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Baofushê 保福社 is the principal shê-altar of Xiacuo 下厝 (Xiahouting下后亭), Guocuo 郭厝, Beicheng 北埕, Shanghouting 上后亭, and Xiahoukeng 下后坑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shenggongdian 圣公殿: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣候, Jialan sanbao 伽蓝三宝, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Shenggongdian 圣公殿 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1 all the gods of Baofushê 保福社 go on a procession to each of the villages that are part of the alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Marionette operas are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, including rites of Universal Deliverance 普度. This is organized by Baofushê 保福社, and funds are collected based on the population size of each village. Shanghouting 上后亭 provides 20%, Xiating 下亭 (Xiacuo 下厝, Xiahouting 下后亭) provides 40%, Guocuo 郭厝 provides 10%, Beicheng 北埕 provides 20%, and Xiahoukeng 下后坑 provides 10%. 
V532 Shanghouting 上后亭 1. Village settlement The total population of Shanghouting is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Xuanyingdong 玄瀛洞 is also called the Sangongdian 三公殿. The main god is Lizu xianshi 李祖仙师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, all the gods of Xuanyingdong 玄瀛洞 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of the Baofushê 保福社 in Guocuo village go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Baofushê in Guocuo village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/17: The birthday celebration of Lizu xianshi 李祖仙师. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社 (of Guocuo village). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V533 Beicheng 北埕 1. Village settlement The total population of Beicheng is approximately 350 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples Fupinggong 福平宫: The main god is Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Huang zhongjun 黄中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, all the gods of Fupinggong 福平宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of the Baofushê 保福社 of Guocuo village go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社 of Guocuo village. Opera is performed., and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V534 Dongzhang 东张 1. Village settlement The total population of Dangzhang 东张 is around 895 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Lu 卢, the Liu 刘, the Wang 王, and the Cai 蔡. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yi’anshê 义安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Ziyunmiao 紫云庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Dongshan shuyuan 东山书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Zhuzi xiansheng 朱子先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4) Canglongmiao 苍龙庙: The main god is Kusi dawang 库司大王. 5) Yibentang 义本堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 all the gods of Yianshê 义安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Kusi dawang 库司大王. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V535 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The total population of Tiancuo is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yianshê 义安社 branched off from Yianshê 义安社 of Dongzhang 东张. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, all the gods of Yianshê 义安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A116 Qinhou wujia (Qinhou five jia ritual alliance) 沁后五甲 The five jia ritual alliance of Qinhou is located along the foothills of the Zixiao Mountain 紫宵山. The water for the irrigation of the fields of this area comes primarily from the Linquanbei Weir 林泉陂. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu (police/defense unit) 东张山后铺 of Xingjiaoli (subcanton) 兴教里. In the early Qing, the villages of Qinhou 沁后, Qinshan 沁山, Fushan 浮山 and Xiazheng 下邓 were settled. By the late Qing, the villages of Dingdeng 顶邓, Banling 半岭 and Wengcuo 翁厝 had separated off. The current population of the alliance is close to 3000 people, living in approximately 800 households. The main livelihoods are agriculture and forestry. Many villagers work in small foreign-funded enterprises. These villages are managed by the Qinhou Administrative Village 沁后行政村. Fuxingshê 福兴社, located in Dengcuo 邓厝 village, is the ancestral shê altar of the seven jia ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. During the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual associations of the alliance takes turns to go on procession to the temple to invite the gods back to their village. Collective rites and processions have not been revived. This area has eight main surname groups (ranked by population size): the Deng 邓, the Cai 蔡, the Weng 翁, the Ma 马, the Guan 关, the Chen 陈, the Zhu 朱 and the Hong 洪. The Deng 邓 came from Baimo Jiufeng 白磨 九峰. The Deng lineage is divided into four branches. The Cai 蔡 came from Chiding 池顶 village in Tongan 同安. These Cai are of the same ancestry as the Cai of Dongsha 东沙 in Lingchuan 灵川. There used to be an ancestral hall, but now the Qinhou elementary school 沁后小学 is located at the old site. The Cai lineage genealogy has recently been compiled but is yet to be printed. The origins of the Weng 翁 surname group is unknown. The Ma 马 came from Quanzhou 泉州. As for the Guan 关, the surname was originally the compound surname Shang Guan 上官. It was then shortened to Guan 关 for an unidentified reason. The Chen 陈 came from Chenqiao 陈桥, and Qinhou five jia ritual alliance have less than ten households in the alliance. Both the Hong 洪 and the Zhu 朱 came from Fushan 浮山. Both surname groups have very few people (only a few households each). There are also the Zheng 郑 and the Yao 姚 in Xiatiancuo 下田厝. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Qinghou villages were part of the white banner alliance. 
V536 Dengcuo 邓厝 1. Village settlement Dengcuo is divided into two jia 甲 neighborhoods: Shangdeng 上邓 and Xiadeng 下邓. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Deng 邓. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Fuxingshê 沁后境福兴社 was rebuilt in Qing Daoguang 21 (1841). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wuguxian 五谷仙 (Shennongshi 神农氏), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The Spring Festival 春节 celebrations are held on 1/1. The event is organized by the shê 社. Opera is performed for one to two days. On 1/15, the shêlu 社炉 incense burners is taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession and a feast is organized. There are no shentong mediums and the gods do not go on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/29: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three to six days. The event is hosted by the shê 社. 5/15: A celebration is held for Shennongshi 神农氏. The four jia of Heping 和平四甲 take turns to each sponsor one day of opera performances. 8/13: A celebration is held for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 . Opera is performed for around two days. This event is hosted by Niushan 牛山. The expense for opera performances is either raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. 5. Ritual groups There is a hereditary family of Daoist masters Shigong 师公 living in the village. 
V537 Niushan 牛山 1. Village settlement Niushan is also known as Fushan 浮山 and includes Guoshan. The population size is unknown. 2. Village Surnames Surnames include the Ma 马, the Hong 洪, and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Ruiyunmiao 沁后境瑞云庙 (Dapumiao 大埔庙). The main god worshipped is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Daoshantang 道善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Mingshantang 明山堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Jishansi 继善寺: This Buddhist monastery has been abandoned. There is currently a forest farm on the site of the former temple. 5) Qinhoujing Qinshanmiao 沁后境沁山庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods On 4/2–4, and on 4/8, a celebration is held for the birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This event is organized by Fushan 浮山. 3/3: A celebration is held for Xuantian shangdi’s 玄天上帝 birthday. Opera is performed for the birthday celebration of three to four days. This is funded by donations raised on a per capita basis. 
V538 Qinwei 沁尾 1. Village settlement There are approximately 850 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The surname groups are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Xinganshê 沁后境兴安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the shêlu 社炉 incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 12/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V539 Xiatiancuo 下田厝 1. Village settlement Xiatiancuo is also known as Minzhu 民主. There are approximately 400 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Xinglongshê 沁后境兴隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the shêlu 社炉 incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession and the gods of the village go on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/22: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is held. 
A117 Weiyang sanjia (Weiyang three jia ritual alliance) 渭阳三甲 
V540 Weiyang 渭阳 1. Village settlement The three jia alliance of Weiyang is located along the foothills of the Zixiao Mountains 紫霄山. The water for irrigating the fields is mostly drawn from the Mingcukeng trench 明厝坑圳 and the Shuangyikeng trench 双义坑圳, diverting water from the mountains behind the village. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu 东张山后铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing the village of Weizhuang 围庄 was settled here. There are currently 1100 people living in the village whose main livelihood is agriculture. Weiyang produces an abundance of dragon eyes (longan) 龙眼 and loquats 枇杷. The village is managed by the Weiyang Administrative Village 渭阳行政村. The temple ritual system is divded according to settlements into three ritual associations. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Weiyang was part of the red (neutral) banner alliance, but their leaned towards the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups the main surname group of Weicuo 尾厝 is the Huang 黄. Other surnames include more than ten Lin 林 households. The main surname groups in Banshan 半山 are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Lai 赖 and the Zhou 周. Shipaidou 石牌兜 has the Zhong 钟 and the Chen 陈. The Huang 黄 of Weiyang migrated from Weiyang three jia ritual alliance Anhai 安海 in Quanzhou 泉州 during the Qing Dynasty, and have now reached their eleventh generation. In the late Qing, these Huang were the greatest mercantile lineage in the Hanjiang region. The Huang built the Yixing ancestral hall 义兴宗祠 and the Ruiyu ancestral hall 瑞裕宗祠, but both have been abandoned. 3. Village temples 1) Weizhuangjing Huashanshê 渭庄境华山社 (also known as the Dongshê 东社): Located in Weicuo 尾厝, it was rebuilt in 1980. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sansheng zhejun 三圣真君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Left altar: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Jinlinmiao 金林庙 is located in Banshan 半山. The gods worshipped are: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Huashan xishê 华山西社 is located in Banshan 半山. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Secondary gods: Wugu daxian 五谷大仙. 4) Anfumiao 安福庙 is located in Banshen半山. Main gods: Tianshang shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Zhudaye 朱 大爷, Dou sheren 豆舍人, Erye 二爷 and Sanye 三爷. 5) Qingyundong 庆云洞 is located in Shipaidou 石牌兜. Main god: Zhong kui 钟馗. 6) Tongmingsi 通明寺 is located in Shipaidou 石牌兜. Middle: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13, the three neighborhoods of Weiyang take incense burners to each household to practice the Dao 行道, but do this separately. On 1/14, a procession is held within the entire village and the crossroads into the community are sealed 封道. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The three jia each select a fushou 福首 headman to organize these events together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongkuigong 钟馗公 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by Shipaidou, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by Weicuojia 尾厝甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huashan xishê 华山西社. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by Banshanjia 半山甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. This evens is organized by Banshanjia 半山甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the Chen 陈 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Lufu daren 鲁府大人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the Lai 赖 and the Zhou 周 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huashanshê 华山社 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by Weicuo 尾厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A118 Sanshan sanshê (Sanshan three shê ritual alliance) 三山三社 The three shê alliance of Sanshan is located in the foothills of the Zixiao Mountains 紫霄山, at the base of three small hills near the northern edge of the northern irrigated plain. Their water for irrigation comes primarily from the Linquan Weir 林泉陂 and the Mingcuokeng trench 明厝坑圳. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu (police/defense unit) 东张山后 铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing the three villages of Jingtou 井头, Xiake 下柯, and Shanhou 山后 were settled. The current population of these villages is over 2300 people, and they are managed by the Sanshan Administrative Village 三山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into three shê. Tongji yuewanggong 通济越王宫 temple, located in Xiake 下柯 village, is the main temple of the three shê village alliance. The main god is Yuewang dadi 越王大帝. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the three shê take turns going on procession to the temple to request incense fire. On lunar 1/14 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated, and the gods of the temple are carried in a procession to each of the three villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three villages of Sanshan were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V541 Jingtou 井头 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Xu 许 and forty to fifty Lin 林 households. It is said that the Lin emigrated from Chizhu 赤柱 of Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Fushoushê 福寿社 was rebuilt in Guangxu 8 (1882). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Dabentang 大本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 165 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 to request incense fire 香火, and take the incense burners to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three shê alliance. At night, the lanterns are paraded, palm sedan chair are carried around and fire walking ceremonies are held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V542 Xiake 下柯 1. Village settlement The entire village has 492 people. 2. Surname groups The Ke 柯 makes up 70–80% of the total population. Other surnames include six Chen 陈 households, one Wang 王 household, and more than ten Wu 吴 households. It is said that the Ke came from Kezhu 柯朱 in Ling chuan 灵川 and from Liuqiao 柳桥 in Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 was built in the Guangxu 25 (1899) and was renovated in 1989. Middle altar: Yuewang dadi 越王大帝. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lugong dianshuai 鲁公殿帅. 2) Fuxingmiao 福兴庙, Fuyoushê 福佑社 was rebuilt in 1986 and again in 2004. Upper altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣 侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Ganyingtang 感应堂 was renovated in 1988. On the upper altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Middle altar: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Left altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 request incense fire 香火, and the incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/1–3: The birthday celebration of Yuewang dadi 越王大帝 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the three-fold shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8./25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V543 Shanhou 山后 1. Village settlement Shanhou village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李, the Zhang 张 and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples 1) Lingyin zushê 灵隐祖社 was built in the Qianlong period and was rebult in 1921, 1985 and in 2000. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Wenxinmiao 文新庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Baishenmiao 百神庙: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 4) Feihudian 飞虎殿: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Miaodetang 妙德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records 235 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 2/12–13 villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 to request incense fire 香火, and then they carry the incense burners to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/1–3: The birthday celebration of Yuewang dadi 越王大帝 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the three-fold shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of all the gods of Baifumiao 百福庙 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A119 Wanyang sishê (Wanyang four shê ritual alliance) 碗洋四社 The four-shê ritual alliance of Wanyang is located in the foothills of the Zixiao mountains 紫宵山. Water for irrigation is primarily drawn from the Guantang 官塘 Reservoir and the Chengtang 澄塘 reservoir. This area was part of the Wanyao Houhuangpu (police/defense unit) 碗窑后黄铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing, the village of Wanyao 碗窑 was settled. Currently, the area includes the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Houyang 后洋, Gelong 隔垄 and Tiancuo 田厝. These villages are managed by the Wanyang Administrative Village 碗洋行政村. The temple ritual order is divided on the basis of shê-altar temples into four shê. The Guanshengmiao 关圣庙 temple, located in Xiyang 西洋 village, is the main temple for the four-shê ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Each year on lunar 2/2—the toufu (first day of good fortune)—the god is taken on a tour of inspection around each shê. The three main surnames of the village are the Huang 黄, the Shi 施, and the Chen 陈. There are also the Weng 翁 and Lin 林 minor surname groups. It is said that the first person to move to the village was one Huang Wuqing 黄斌卿 during the Yuan. The Shi 施 emigrated from Jinjiang 晋江 to Donghu 洞湖 during the mid-Ming, and then migrated to the village of Wanyang from Donghu 洞湖. The village was called Tiantoucuo 田头厝 at that time. The Shi 施 lineage is divided into two major branches, and the first branch has sub-divided into four branches while the second branch currently is subdivided into five branches. The Shi 施 have a total population of 300 people. The second branch has the most people, with approximately 200 people. The second branch of the Shi has an ancestral hall, but the lineage genealogy has been destroyed. The ancestral tomb was originally in Sanshan 三山, but has already been destroyed. The Huang, making up approximately 400 people, live mainly in Houyang 后洋. The Huang moved here from Donghuang 东黄 in Chengzhu village 澄渚村. They are divided into four branches, of which the third branch has the most people, making up approximately 30% of the total population of the Huang. There originally was an Huang 黄 ancestral hall. The Chen 陈 have approximately 250 people who are divided into six lineage branches, of which three branches are in Xiyang 西洋 while the other three branches are in Gelong 隔垄. The Chen had an ancestral hall, but it has been transformed into a warehouse for cardboard boxes. In the feuding alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê alliance of Wanyang were all members of the red banner alliance. 
V544 Xiyang 西洋 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shi 施, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Wanyangjing Guanshengmiao 碗洋境关圣庙 was built in Ming Chongzhen 3 (1630). Main god: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Secondary gods: Zhou Cang 周仓, Guan Ping 关平, Ma jiangjun 马将军 (Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军), Zhang Bao 张苞, Zhang Lei 张累, Guan Xing 关兴, Wang Yong 王用. The rear hall has a 2) Wenchangge 文昌阁: Main god: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. This temple is one of the five great temples of Putian, and it preserves ten pieces (40 cm × 10 cm) of a Ming dynasty divinatory poetry board 签支板 and numerous carved couplets. It is said that Huang Kangqin 黄康钦, the Commander 总兵 of Zhoushan 舟山 of Zhejiang province 浙江 during the Ming Dynasty, was from Wanyang 碗洋. During his fight against Japanese pirates 倭寇, Emperor Guan (Guandi) 关帝 manifested 显灵 to help him win. Thus he made bronze statues of Guan Yu 关羽, Guan Ping 关平, and Zhou Cang 周仓, and shipped them back to Putian. During the process, a huge tide hit them and the statues of Guan Ping and Zhou Cang sank, leaving only Guan Yu’s statue. Local commander Huang 黄总兵 was later killed, and the blood that came out of him was blue. He was vindicated afterwards and granted the title of Guogong 国公 (the place was originally called Guogongpo 国公坡). 2) Zongkongci 宗孔祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, on the day of Toufu 头福, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held in the four village alliance. Lanterns are taken on a procession around the four village alliance. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These rituals are organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V545 Houyang 后洋 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Longjin shê 龙津社 is co-owned by Houyang 后洋, Xiyang 西洋, and Donghuang 东黄. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–16, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V546 Gelong 隔垄 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shi 施 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Fulong dongshê 浮龙东社 was built during the earlyQing Dynasty (others also say that it was built during the Ming Dynasty). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village Opera is performed, and Dao ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V547 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanshê 龙山社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingshansi 青山寺: Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Qinglonggong 青龙宫 is dedicated to Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Qingfudian 清福殿: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Baidaren 白大人 and Xietian dadi协天上帝. 5) Jinshangfu 金沙府 is dedicated to Wangdaren 王大人. 6) Qinglinggong 青灵宫: Main god: Lubu dashen. Secondary gods are Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Dao- ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with opera. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held with opera. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with opera for four days. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held with opera for four days. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. On a day determined by divination in the lunar 11th month, the birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held. On all these occasions, Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. Some of these rituals are organized by the village as a whole, while others are orangized by the entire four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A120 Houhuang ershê (Houhuang two shê ritual alliance) 后黄二社 
V548 Houhuang 后黄) 1. Village settlement Houhuang is located in between the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation system太平陂. This area was part of the Wanyao Houhuangpu (police/defense unit) 碗窑 后黄铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. The village was settled in the Ming. The entire village has approximately 1000 people. Houhuang an independent natural village, as well as being managed by an Administrative Village of the same name. The main source of income used to be agriculture and weaving in the past, but now it’s mostly fruit trees (dragon eyes, loquat). The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of settlements and lineages into two shê altars. The village also has approximately twenty households of Christian believers. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Houhuang was part of the red banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The surnames of the village includes the Xu 许, Huang 黄, Wu 吴, and Lin 林, of which the Xu and the Huang makes up more than 90% of the total population, while there are only a few households of the Wu and the Lin. The Xu makes up around 60% of the population. They are divided into four branches: Xincuoli 新厝里, Xiacuoli 下厝里, Gebili 隔壁里, and Cuozi 厝仔, of which Xincuoli has the greatest number of people, although the precise number is unclear. There is an ancestral hall that is used during the Yuanxiao festivals 元宵. The ancestral tombs are in Xipo 西坡. The Huang, making up close to 40% of the total population, emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞 (Huangxiang in Hanjiang), and are part of the Jiangxia Liufang 江夏流芳 line. There is an ancestral hall. Their genealogy is kept in Huangxia 黄霞 near Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Houhuangjing Taoyuanshê 后黄境桃源社 includes the Taoyuan dongshê 桃源东社 and the Taoyuan xishê 桃源西社. This temple was originally built in the early Ming dynasty and was rebuilt in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days starting on 9/16. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dadi 中天大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Meihua ziniang 梅花子娘, Heihu xuanwang 黑虎宣王 and Taoli jiangjun 桃李将军. 2) Longhua shuyuan 龙华书院 was built in the Qing, and was rebuilt in the 1980s. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 143 initiates. 3) Fengshangong 凤山宫 was recently rebuilt. Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Zhende’an 贞德庵 was recently rebuilt. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝, Shan tongzi 善童子, Xianzhu longzhou 献珠龙舟. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–12 Taoyuan dongshê 桃源东社 invites Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. At night, lanterns are paraded and palm sedan chair are carried around. This is organized by the Huang 黄, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–15, Taoyuan xishê 桃源西社 invites Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 to go on procession within its territory. At night, lanterns are paraded and palm sedan chair are carried around. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Xu 许, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. 
A121 Loutou sishê (Loutou four shê ritual alliance) 漏头四社 
V549 Loutou 漏头 1. Village settlement The village of Loutou is located within the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂. This area was part of the Loutoupu 漏头铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli 兴教里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Loutou was already settled. In the Qing the village of Fangzhuang 方庄 divided off. There are currently more than 2200 people living in the village. The village is managed by the Loutou Administrative Village 漏头 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to lineage groupings into four she-altars: Shoushê 首社 belongs to the Huang 黄; Zhongshê 中社 belongs to the Liang 梁, the Xu 许 and the Wu 吴; Xishê 西社 belongs to the Ke 柯, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾 and the Liu 刘; Dongshê 东社 belongs to the Wang 王. Formerly, Fangzhuang 方庄 belonged to Loutou sishê 漏头 四社. Nowadays this village no longer participates in the common Yuanxiao procession of Loutou 漏头. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the village of Loutou was part of the white banner alliance. The main livelihoods are agriculture but many female workers work in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wang 王 and the Liang 梁. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Li 李. The Wang 王 came from Sanshan 三山 (Fuzhou) from Fenghuoshan 峰火山 near Fangzhuang 方庄 of Xizhuang village 西庄村. There is a Wang ancestral hall 王氏宗祠 in Loutou village. The Liang 梁 came from Liangcuo 梁厝 of Hushi 笏石 during the Qianlong period. Their ancestor is known as De Xuan Gong (Master De Xuan) 德玄公. The Liang are divided into three lineage branches: Wanbao 万宝, Wanjin 万金, and Wanzhu 万珠. They are now in their ninth generation in the village. The Ke 柯 came from Xiake Loutou four shê ritual alliance village 下柯 of the Sanshan 三山 (Fuzhou) region. The Li 李 came from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Right altar: Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 2) Chongfutang 崇福堂: This temple was renovated in 1987. Middle hall: Middle altar: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left hall: Wenchang dijun 文昌 帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. Right hall: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Rear hall: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Denglongshê 登龙社 was originally built in Ming Hongwu 16 (1383) (according to the Xu Lineage Genealogy 许氏族谱). This temple is co-owned by the Shoushê 首社, the Zhongshê 中社 and the Xishê 西社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the four divine generals 四神将 (the Zhu 朱, Tao 桃, Jin 金, and Li 李). 4) Denglong dongshê 登龙东社 was renovated in 1985. Middle altar middle niche 中龛: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left niche 左龛: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯. Right niche 右龛: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Left altar: Dutong dawang 都统大王, Duguan pusa 都管菩萨. Right altar: Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Heihu shenjiang 黑虎神将, Huban dashen 虎班大神. 5) Longfenggong 龙凤宫 was originally built in Guangxu 26 (1900) and is dedicated to the following gods: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Fuling zushi 法灵祖师, Liu daren 刘大人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天 大帝, Kefu zhenren 柯府真人, Lufu jungong 鲁府军公. 6) Longlingong 龙麟宫 was built in 1948. Middle altar: Taishang laojun 太上老君. Left altar: Shuaigong shenghou 帅公圣侯, Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 7) Yuanben shuyuan 元本书院: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Lanpenpudu 兰盆 rituals are held here on 11/ 6. 8) Yunlinsi 云林寺: Middle: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛; Left: Guanyin dashi 观 音大士; Right: Damo zushi 达摩祖师. 9) Shengfutang 升福堂: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10) Jingfugong 景福宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Li daye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhongshê 中社 and Dongshê 东社 go on a procession with the gods to each household to xingdao practice the Dao 行道. On 1/14 the Shoushê 首社 and Xishê 西社 go on a procession with the gods to each household to xingdao practice the Dao 行道. On 1/15 Dutong daren 都统大人, Duguan pusa 都管菩萨 and Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 go on a procession within the village. The god’s chairs are carried through fire 踏火 and three Daoist ritual masters 道士 are invited to conduct the Jiao ritual. On 2/2 a common Yuanxiao 元宵 is held and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on procession within the village. Lanterns are taken on procession around the ritual territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/ 8: Toutiaoxi 头条戏 is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 2/2: The toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rites are celebrated with two days of opera, with funds raised on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by Dongshê 东社. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village as a whole. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan Zhao yuanshuai 玄坛赵元帅. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 10/6: The first celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by Shoushê 首社. 10/7: The second celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by the Zhongshê 中社. 10/8: The third celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by the Xishê 西社. 10/15: The fourth celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫 of Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by Dongshê 东社. Contributions for all the above events are collected on a per capita basis within the part of the village involved. 
V550 Fangzhuang 方庄 1) Village settlement people. The current population of Fangzhuang is about 200 2) Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. 3) Village temples 1) Longyuanshê 龙元社, Longyuangong 龙元宫: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Shuishen 水神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lifu daren 李府大人, Sandu yuanshuai 三都元帅 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Fulinggong 绂麟宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Liushenghou 刘圣侯 and Jinshenghou 金圣侯. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burner of the she-altar is taken on procession to every household within the village to xingdao practice the Dao. Birthday celebration of the gods 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A122 Wutang qijing (Wutang sevenfold ritual alliance) 梧塘七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Wutang is located along the upper channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Wutangpu 梧塘铺 (police/defense unit) and the Fenglin Linwaipu 林外铺 of Xingjiaoli 兴教里 (sub-canton). In the Ming, the villages of Shangwutang 上吴塘村 and Fengling 枫岭村 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Xiatou 下头, Taibeizhuang 太白庄, Qianzhuang 前庄, Gucen 古岑, and Linwai 林外 divided off. These villages are now managed by four Administrative Villages, namely Fenglin 枫林, Xialou 霞楼, Xizhuang 西庄 and Dongfu 东福行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to village into the seven independent ritual units of Linwai 林外, Meiling 梅岭, Dongpai 东牌, Fuxingshê 福兴社, Taibaizhuang 太白庄, Xizhuang 西庄 (Qianzhuang 前庄) and Xialou 下楼 (Xiatou 下头). Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社 temple, located in Fengling 枫岭 village, is the ancestral she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance, while Chengyingdian 诚应殿 of Taibaizhuang 太白庄 is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance goes on procession to these temples to invite the gods back to their village. Each year on lunar 1/17 the main god of the Chengyingdian 诚应殿, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, is carried in a procession around all the villages in the sevenfold ritual alliance. Wutang sevenfold ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the village of Xialou 霞楼 was part of the white banner alliance, while the other villages were part of the red banner alliance. However, the village of Xizhuang 西庄 was inclined towards the black banner alliance. 
V551 Linwai 林外 1. Village settlement Linwai was originally called Linwaishê 林外社. Linwai village is a part of the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. The three jiao (corners, i.e., neighborhoods) of Linwai 林外三角 are Pengcuo 彭厝, Laicuo 赖厝, and Xiacuohuang 下厝黄. There are close to 1700 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Su and the Chen. The Su 苏 came from Wugong 武功 and the Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. Other surnames are the Tu 涂, Zhou 周, Li 李, and the Zhang 张 from Guitang 桂塘. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. Tombs are swept on Qingming 清明 festival, but there is no common worshipping. In Pengcuo 彭厝, the main surname groups are the Yao 姚, Zheng 郑, and the Peng 彭. In Laicuo 赖厝, the main surname group is the Lai 赖. In Xiacuohuang 下厝黄, the main surname group is the Huang 黄, which has two branches: one came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and one from the mountains, the Huang of Shanli 山里黄. 3. Village temples 1) Linwaijing Xianglong fushê 林外境香龙福社: Originally built on Mount Gui 龟山 in 1503, it was relocated here in 1580. An stele from Qing Daoguang 15 (1835) has been preserved. The main gods worshipped are Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. 2) Fuchenggong 福成宫 is also known as Xiacuo Wuwanggong 下厝五 王宫. The main gods worshipped are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Other gods include Langong dashen 兰公大神, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Xie daren 谢大人, Huang daren 黄大人 and Li daren 李大人. 3) Chongbentang 重本堂 in Laicuo 赖厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 325 initiates. 4) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 in Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Pengcuo 彭厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/12 Laicuo 赖厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/13 Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/17 A common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is offered three days of opera. 2/25: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is offered two days of opera 4/13: Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 are offered three days of opera 7/6: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 are offered two days of opera. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. Contributions for the opera and Daoist rituals for these occasions are collected from each dui 队 (production brigade) on a per capita basis. 
V552 Meiling 梅岭 1. Village settlement Meiling is also know as Fengli 枫林 and belongs to the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. Meiling is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Changjijia 长基甲 has 738 people, Linganjia 林干甲 has 338 people, Luoganjia 罗干甲 has 200 people, and Wuzhongjia 吾中甲 has 585 people, for a total of 1921 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. Other surnames include the Luo 罗 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Meiling Wuzhong Fenglingjing Xiangyingshê 梅岭 吾中凤岭境香应社 used to be the main temple of Linwai 林外总社. Then Longxishê 龙溪社 branched out from this temple and gradually gained popularity and recognition that surpassed that of Xiangyingshê 香应社. Thus, it replaced Xiangyingshê 香应社 and became known as Longxi zushê (Dragon stream founding altar of the soil and the harvest) 龙溪祖社. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Wanggong ye 王公爷 and Huoshen ye 火神爷. 2) Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社 is in the Fengling shengjing 凤岭胜境. The temple was expanded during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620). This temple is the zushê (ancestral altar) 祖社 of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Aotang 鳌塘七境. (Chengyingdian 诚应殿 of Taibaizhuang 太白庄 of Wutang 梧 塘 is the main temple of that sevenfold ritual alliance. Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝 goes on procession within that sevenfold ritual alliance). The main gods worshipped in the Longxi zushê are Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普 济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 3) Shihuici 世惠祠 is dedicated to the five people who constructed and repaired the 太平陂 Taiping Weir and its irrigation canals—the Wuwei zunshen 五位尊神 who were all judged to have performed major deeds of merits. They are He Yu 何玉, Liu E 刘谔, Cai Xiang 蔡襄, Zeng Yonghu 曾用虎, and Zhang Nie 章蘖. Chenfu daren 陈府大人is also worshipped. This shrine was originally built in Song Shaoxing 2 (1132). The Fengshanci 凤山祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and to Xiaoxing zushi 孝行祖师. 3) Jiaruimiao 嘉瑞庙: This temple was built in Jiajing 35 (1556), and is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Meiling Cigongge 梅岭慈公阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–16, each jia invites in rotation Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 to go on procession. A spirit medium accompanies the procession. On 1/17, a common Yuanxiao celebration of sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration for Xiaoxing zushi 孝行祖师 is held, with two days of opera. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with three days of opera. This organization of this events rotates annually from the Xingyinshê to the Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社. 4/26: The celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held, with two days of opera. 9/3: The celebration for Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官 is held, with two to three days of opera. 10/15: The Lanpen pudu 兰盆 ritual is held. Nuns from the Cigongge 慈公阁 perform the rites. The expenses for opera performances and Daoist rituals for the birthday celebrations of gods above are apportioned to every dui 队 (production brigade) and raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Every year, each jia nominates one Fushou 福首 on the basis of age to run the village ritual activities. 
V553 Xizhuang 西庄 1. Village settlement Xizhuang village is a part of the Xizhuang Administrative Village. 西庄行政村 The entire village currently has more than 2200 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The Chen are divided into at least two groups, the Da Chen and the Xiao Chen (greater and lesser Chen). Other surname groups include the Lu 卢, the Zhu 朱, the Lin 林, the Fang 方, the Zheng 郑, the Qiu 邱, and the Liu 刘. The Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiaoli Aotangjing Longxingshê 兴教里鳌塘境 隆兴社: Originally built during the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1736), the temple was renovated in 1985. A stele from Xianfeng 10 (1860) is preserved in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Gong daren 龚大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhongkui shengjun 钟馗圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Dutong yuanshuai 都统元帅 and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 2) Xingxianmiao 兴贤庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Wanlingong 万麟宫 was originally built during the Qing Qianlong period. The main gods worshipped are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Other gods include Jin daren 金大人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4) Tianhougong 天后宫: Originally built in 1926, the temple was renovated in 1991. Main gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 5) Taipingmiao 太平庙: Main gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Other gods: Huangcang 黄仓, Baicang 白仓. 6) Dunbentang 敦本堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. Right: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Lu 卢 paoxiang 跑香 (run with the incense), and invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 the Greater Chen 大陈 also paoxiang 跑香 (run with the incense), and invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao. On 1/13, the Lesser Chen 小陈 together with the Lin 林, the Zhu 朱, the Zheng 郑, and the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/14, the Great Chen 大陈 qifu (pray for blessings) 祈福 by inviting Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 to go on a tour of inspection around the boundaries of their territory in the village 绕境巡游. On 1/15 the Lesser Chen 小陈 together with the Lin 林, the Zhu 朱, the Zheng 郑, and the Fang 方 do the same set of rites and processions within their own territory. On 1/16, the Lu 卢 pray for blessings, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 are again taken on a procession around their territory. On 1/17, the village attends the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration for Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/13: The celebration for Zhuzhu mingwang and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/23: The celebration for Gong daren 龚大人. 9/9: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every year, opera is performed approximately seven times, each time lasting for two to three days. Every time, the expenses for opera performances are raised on a per capita basis. 
V554 Taibaizhuang 太白庄 1. Village settlement Taibaizhuang village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village 东福行政村. The settlement of the Xingjiaoli (sub-canton), Aotangjing, Taibaizhuang village 兴教里鳌塘境太白庄 began during the Qing Dynasty. There are currently more than 853 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The Xu 许 make up 50%, and the Yang 杨 30% of the village population. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, the Cai 蔡 with seven or eight households, the Hong 洪 with two households, the Wu 吴 and the Zhu 朱 with one household each. The Xu 许 came from Shigu 石鼓 in Yongchun county 永春县. Their ancestor’s ancestral house 祖栋 and ancestral tombs 祖墓 are in Qiulu 萩芦. The Yang 杨氏 also came from Yongchun 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiaoli aotangjing chengyingdian 兴教里鳌塘境 诚应殿: was originally built in Qianlong 18 (1753), and was rebuilt in 1984. A stele from the Xianfeng 1 (1851) is preserved in the temple. This temple is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Xizhuang 西庄, including the villages of Dongpai 东牌, Fuxingshê 福兴社, Xialou 霞楼, Taibaizhuang 太白庄, Linwai 林外, and Fengling 枫岭. The main god of the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include the four marshalls 四大元帅: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. Left altar: Jialan dadi 伽蓝大帝. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 2) Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社: Originally built in Xianfeng 2 (1852), this temple was renovated in 1987. The main gods worshipped are: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元 帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 3) Dunbentang 敦本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. His celebration is held on 7/15. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records sixty-five initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, the villagers invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 there are lantern processions that form circles of linked lanterns quandeng 圈灯, and paoxiang 跑香 running with incense, and tahuo 踏火 firewalking rituals. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct the Jiao ritual. The following gods go on procession and take a tour of inspection of the village boundaries (in six palm sedan chair 棕桥: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王). On 1/17 an overall procession is held for the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the Chengyingdian 诚应殿. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 (funds raised by the entire sevenfold ritual alliance). Opera is performed for two days. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration for Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration for Tudigong’s 土地公 birthday. Opera is performed for three days. Funds for opera and Daoist rituals are raised on a per capita basis within the village, and supplemented by voluntary donations from the sevenfold ritual alliance and from Overseas Chinese. 
V555 Fuxingshê 福兴社 1. Village settlement Fuxingshê village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village 东福行政村. There are currently more than 593 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The Peng 彭 are the main surname group, making up 70–80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Li 李 with four households, the Cai 蔡 with six households, the Huang 黄 with four households, the Hu 胡 with six households, the Zhang 张 with two households, and the Xu 徐 with one household. 3. Village temples The Fuxingshê 福兴社 was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽 尊王, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统 are taken on procession around the village. On 1/15, there is a paoxiang (running the incense) 跑香 ritual, and lanterns are lit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The celebration for Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/22: The celebration for Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 9/9: The celebration for Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days and Daoist rituals are conducted. Funding is raised on a per capita basis within the village. 5. Ritual groups A single Fushou 福首 is selected each year to run the major rituals of the year. 
V556 Dongpai 东牌 1. Village settlement Dongpai village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village东福行政村. There are approximately 2000 people living in Dongpai village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers working in the shoe manufacturing industry and other manufacturing industries. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up 50%, and the Lin 林 (40%) of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. The Wu came from Shuinan 水南 of Huangshi 黄石. The Lin came from Wushi 乌石 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Aotangjing Xingxiaoli Zhongwu Wanshoushê 鳌塘 境兴孝里忠吴万寿社. This temple was renovated in Guangxu 19 (1893) and again in 1986. The temple is divided into the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 which belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Wanshoushê 万寿社 which belongs to the Lin 林. They worship separate sets of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped in the Zhongwushê include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Other gods in the Wanshoushê include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gongfu daren 龚府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 19 (1893) entitled 重修忠吴万寿祖社序 (Preface to the restoration of the Zhongwu Wanshou founding shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:348, No. 312). 2) Dongqinggong 东青宫, Zhuyundian 竹云殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母and to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Qiaotou Donglaidian 桥头东来殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and to Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Puyintang 普音堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Wu 吴 invite many of the gods of the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 to go on a procession: The following gods are placed in six palm sedan chairs 棕轿: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The Lin invite four gods from the Wanshoushê 万寿社 to ride in large wooden sedan chairs in a procession. These are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Gongfu daren 龚府大人. Six gods are placed in smaller palm sedan chairs. They are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gong daren 龚大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On 1/14, the Lin 林 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/15, the Wu 吴 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanshoushê 万寿社 are celebrated by the Lin 林. 5/13: The birthday of Sima shengwan 司马圣王 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 5/27: The birthday of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Zhongwushê 万寿社 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 8/13: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai’s 田公元帅 is celebrated by the Lin 林. Due to the restrictions on the location of the opera performance, opera performances usually take place during the sixth lunar month, using the playground in the local elementary school. Opera is performed for five to six days. The expenses are collected on a per capita basis, from within the relevant lineage. 
V557 Xialou 霞楼 1. Village settlement Xialou village was originally called Xialou 下楼 or Xiatou 下头\, and belongs to the Xialou Administrative Village 霞楼行政 村. Xialou village is divided into four jiaoluo (neighborhoods) 角: These are called the first branch 长房, second branch 二房, third branch 三房, and the mixed branch 杂房. There are 2100 people living in the village. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. The Lin moved here in Kangxi 18 (1679). The first, second and third branches of the village are all of the Lin surname group. The mixed branch is made up of the Liu 刘, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Huang 黄, Xu 徐, Zhu 朱, He 何, and Dai 戴. The mixed branch (zafang) 杂房 can be subdivided into Shangza 上杂 and Xiaza 下杂. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral hall. Some villagers worship ancestors on the Qingming 清明 festival, others on the Winter Solstice 冬至. Tombs are swept separately. 3. Village temples 1) Anminshê 安民社 is in Aotangjing 鳌塘境. It was built in Qing Qianlong 16 (1751). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2) Xinfugong 新福宫 belongs to the Toucuocheng Third Branch 头厝埕三房 of the Lin 林 lineage. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Fulai dian 福来殿 belongs to the second branch 二房 of the Lin. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 4) Taihemiao 太和庙 was originally built during the late Tang Dynasty, then moved to the present location. It is said that Taihemiao existed before the Taiping Weir and the irrigation system “未有太平陂, 先有太和庙”. The temple now belongs to the Lin 林 of the first branch长房. The temple is often referred to as the East temple (Donggong 东宫). The main gods worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qiu taibao 邱太保, Chen taibao 陈太保, Zheng taibao 郑太保, and Liu taibao 刘太保. The stone inscription composed in Ming Longqing 6 (1572) by Guo Yingpin 郭应聘 and entitled 修太和庙记 (Record of the repairs to the Temple of Supreme Harmony), is about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:175, No. 153). 5) Fuansi 福安寺 is dedicated to Rulai fo 如来佛, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽兰. 6) Fuantang 福安堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Ruyitang 如意堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Luoyuanci 罗源祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Yanyuandong 延源洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Daoyuandong 道源洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, the first branch 长房 of the Lin 林 lineage take xingdao Sima shengwang on procession to carry out the Dao in each of their households 行道 and then carry the god back to the temple. On 1/13–15, the second and third branches 二房三房 of the Lin 林carry Zhongyuan dashen 中元大圣 to carry out the Dao in each of their households 行道 and then carry the god back to the temple. On 1/16, all of the gods of the Anminshê 安民社, with the exception of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, are taken on a procession through the entire village. On this day also, the middle and lower sections of the “lower mixed branch” 下杂杂房中 race the incense 跑香 (paoxiang), but do not xingdao 行道 (visit each household). The upper mixed branch does neither activity. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. This is hosted by Fulaidian 福来殿. The expenses for opera performances is paid for by the second branch, by voluntary donations, and by funds raised in the second branch on a per capita basis. Opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This is hosted by Xinfugong 新福宫. The expenses for the opera performances is paid for by the third branch and by the Upper mixed branch 上杂, by voluntary donations and by funds raised on a per capita basis. Opera is perfumed for two to three days. 4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 Opera is performed for two to three days. This is hosted by the shê (altar) 社 itself, and funded by the entire village, on a per capita basis. 4/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongyuan dasheng 中元大圣. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by the village as a whole, on a per capita basis. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. This celebration is hosted by Taihemiao 太和庙 of Dongyang 东阳. The expense for the opera performances are paid for by the first branch 长房 and by the upper mixed branch 上杂. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. Opera is performed two days. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This celebration is hosted by Dongyangmiao 东阳庙. The expenses for opera are paid for by the second branch and the upper mixed branch 上杂. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. Opera is performed for two days. 
A123 Wuzi sanshê (Wuzi three shê ritual alliance) 梧梓三社 
V558 Wuzi 梧梓 1. Village settlement Wuzi village is located along the upper channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Wuzipu 梧梓铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli 兴教里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Wuzi was already settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shangwuzi 上梧梓, Xiawuzi 下梧梓, Lücuo 芦厝 and Kengwei 坑尾 divided off. There are over 1000 people living in Wuzi village nowadays, and the village is managed by the Wuzi Administrative Village 梧梓 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into three shê altars by jiaoluo (neighborhoods) 角落. These are the Zushê 祖社, Shangshê 上社, and Xiashê 下社. The main livelihood is agriculture and some commerce 2. Surname groups There are quite a few surname groups. The main surname group is the Li. The Li are the offspring of Li Zhigan 李制干. There is no ancestral hall. The Li are of the same ancestry as the Li of Yangwei 洋尾李. On Qingming 清明, the Li go to Yangwei 洋尾 to worship their ancestors 祭祖. The ancestral tombs are still preserved, so there are common rites of ancestral worship at the gravesites. 3. Village temples 1) Wuzijing Chongxingshê 梧梓境重兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Liu Jin shenghou 柳金圣侯, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Chongxingshê had originally branched off two other shê altars known as the Shangshê (upper altar) 上社 and Xiashê (lower altar) 下社. These were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. Currently, the gods of both altars are gathered back in their ancestral altar 祖社 as the branch temples have not yet been refurbished. 2) Canglongtan 苍龙坛 in Wuzijing 梧梓境 contains the Chongxingshê 重兴社. The main god worshipped in the Canglongtan 苍龙坛 is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–1/15 the three shê ritual organizations take turns inviting the incense burners of their temples to xingdao Wuzi three shê ritual alliance 行道 at each household. On 1/16 the entire village takes part in paoxiang 跑香 “racing the incense”. All the gods go on a procession around the entire village. Birthday celebration of the gods A poster in the Canglongtan 苍龙坛 temple provides this list of god’s birthdays and other ritual occasions throughout the year. Most are celebrated with two to three days of opera, and Daoist rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 1/3: welcoming of the gods 接神 2/1: is the birthday of Shêgong 社公 2/2: opening of the year Touya 头芽 2/10: is the birthday of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 2/25: is the birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is the birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 3/3: 3/9: is the birthday of Jin shenghou 金圣侯 4/9: is the birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 5/5: is the birthday of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 5/13: is the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 5/16: is the birthday of Wang tianjun 王天君 8/1: is the birthday of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 8/20: is the birthday of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 9/23: is the birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 10/7: is the birthday of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 10/11: is the birthday of Liu Jinhou 柳金侯 12/16th: closing of the year banquet 尾牙 12/23rd: Luotian dasheng 罗天大圣 12/23: the farewell of the gods 送神 
A124 Songban shisanjia (Songban thirteen jia ritual alliance) 松阪十三甲 The thirteen jia alliance of Songban is located along the Upper Channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Sizhou Songbanpu 泗洲松阪铺 (police/defense unit) of Xingjiaoli 兴教里 (sub-canton). In the Ming, the villages of Sizhou 泗洲 and Putou 埔头 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Songban 松阪, Dingcuowei 顶厝尾, Lingqian 岭前 and Qianan 前庵 divided off. In the late Qing and early Republican period, the villages of Daopu 道埔, Siying 泗营, Xiaojia 肖甲, Zhixiang 直巷, Gangtou 巷头, Lingqian 岭前, Baiyuan 白园, Tianluokeng 田螺坑, Butou 埔墩, and Xizheng 西郑 separated off. There are over 3000 people living in the villages of the alliance. Currently these villages are managed by three Administrative Village committees, namely Songdong 松东, Songxi 松西, and Dongpo 东坡行政村. The temple ritual system is divided Songban thirteen jia ritual alliance according to lineage and settlement into thirteen ritual associations (jia 甲). The main livelihoods are agriculture, fruit tree cultivation, off-farm commerce, and working in joint-venture enterprises. The Fushougong 福寿宫 temple, located in Xiaojia 肖甲 village, is the main temple of the thirteen jia alliance. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Later, the Fushougong 福寿宫 branched off into the Fushoumiao 福寿庙 and the Fushoutan 福寿坛. Each year on lunar 1/17 a common Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the thirteen jia alliance, and the gods of the Fushougong temple are carried in a procession through each of the ritual associations of the alliance. There are many surname groups living in the area. The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, the Dai 戴, the Zheng 郑, the Ke 柯, the Liu 刘, the Deng 邓, the Yu 俞, and the Qiu 邱. The main surname group in Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 is the Chen 陈. In Daopu 道埔 and Zhixiang 直巷 the Liu 刘 are the main surname group. Over 1000 members of the Xiao 肖 and Ke 柯 surname groups live in Xiaojia 肖甲. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Putou 埔头, Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 and Xizheng 西郑 were members of the red banner alliance, while Siying village 泗营 was part of the white banner alliance 白旗, and all the other villages were part of the black banner alliance. 
V559 Daopu 道埔 1. Village settlement Daopu village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松溪行政村. There are approximately 1000 people living in Putou village. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are very few other sources of income. The economy is rather weak. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Fushougong 福寿宫 contains the Yongshanshê 永善社, and is located in Zhixiang 直巷. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ruigou shenghou 瑞沟圣侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng zhongjun 彭中军, Zhuojiao zhongjun 卓角中军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Yunshansi 云山寺: The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Jialan 伽兰 and Weituo 韦驮. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 villagers participate in the procession of the thirteen-fold village alliance. On 2/1 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions operas are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V560 Sizhou 泗洲 1. Village settlement Sizhou village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松溪行政村. Sizhou has a population of 535 people. 2. Surname groups There are surnames of the Wu 吴, the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, the Yu 俞, the Xu 许, the Zhuang 庄 and the Xu 徐. The Wu 徐 comes from Zhenqian 镇前. 3. Village temples 1) (Sizhou) Qilingong (泗洲) 麒麟宫 contains the Mingshi ershê 明石二社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Dabentang 达本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records twenty-three initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, gods of Qilingong 麒麟宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village, and opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. On 1/17, attending the procession of Shisanjia 十三甲. On 2/2 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by Sizhou 泗洲 and Ziying 泗营 (called Siyang 泗洋) on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by Sizhou 泗洲 and Ziying 泗营 (called Siyang 泗洋) on a per capita basis. 
V561 Siying 泗营 1. Village settlement Siying village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松西行政村. Siying has a population about 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are Liu 刘 and Ke 柯. 3. Village temples Fushoudian 绂寿殿: The main gods is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 attend the procession of Sizhou Qilingong 泗洲麒麟宫. On 1/17, the Liu 刘 attends the Yuanxiao procession of Songdong Fushougong 松东福寿宫. On 2/2 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized. Opera is organized by the Ke 柯 and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V562 Xiaojia 肖甲 1. Village settlement Xiaojia village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. The village population is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The Xiao 肖 is the biggest surname group which has 1000 people. It is divided into four branches: Houmenxiang 后门巷, Zafang 杂房, Xiajingxiang 下井巷, and Lingdouxiang 岭兜巷. Their origins are unknown. There is common worshipping on Winter Solstice. The lineage genealogy and the ancestral hall have all been destroyed. The Ke 柯 has over 300 people and has the same origin as the Ke 柯 in Siying 泗营. 3. Village temples 1) Songbanjing fushoutan 松坂境福寿坛, Yongshanshê 永善社(also known as the Xiaojia shanggong 肖甲上宫 or the Dinggong 顶宫) belongs to the Xiao 肖 surname group. This temple branched from main temple, the Yongxingtang 永兴堂. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Fuxingtan 福兴坛 contains the Yongxingtang 永兴堂 altar and belongs to the Ke 柯. The main god is Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Secondary gods include Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Wanggong yuanshuai 王公元帅, Zhu daye 朱大爷 and Deng erye 邓大爷. 3) Buyundong 步云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jianlei yushi 监雷御史. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Yongshanshê 永善社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 5) Dongkaici 东开祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang zhenren 张真人, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 6) Fulinfu 绂麟府 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. These four temples stand in a row next to the main temple. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 The Xianglu 香炉 of Fuxingtan 福兴坛 is invited by the Ke 柯 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and go on a procession within the territory. On 1/17 the villagers take part in the common procession of the thirteen village alliance. On 1/18, gods of Fushoutan 福寿坛 are invited by the Xiao 肖 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and go on a procession within the village. In the evening there are stepping on the fire 踏火堆 and palm sedan chairs 棕轿. On 2/2 the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Ke 柯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masterss are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods For the birthday celebrations of the gods, there are only offerings. No opera is performed for these occasions The main rituals take place in the Fushougong 福寿宫 of Xiaojia 肖甲. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xiao 肖. 5/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Xiao 肖. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is organized by the Ke 柯. On these occasions funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V563 Zhixiang 直巷 1. Village settlement Zhixiang village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village松东行政村. Zhixiang 直巷 has a population over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Liu 刘 and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples 1) Fushougong 福寿宫 in Songbanjing 松坂境 is also known as the Zhixiang xiagong 直巷下宫, and contains the altar of the Yongshanshê 永善社: It is the main temple of the thirteen-fold jia of Songban 松 阪十三甲. The temple was built in Kangxi 61 (1722). It was rebuilt during the reign of Emperor Qianlong and in Xianfeng 1 (1851). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ruigou shenghou 瑞沟圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣 侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng zhongjun 彭中军, Zhuojiao zhongjun 卓角中军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Songban used to have a Yongxingtang 永兴堂, but it has long been destroyed. Fushougong 福寿宫 branched out from Yongxingtang 永兴堂 and thus has become the main temple of the thirteen-fold village alliance of Songban 松阪十三甲. Later, Fushougong 福寿宫 had two branch temples branched out from it, namely, the Fushoumiao 福寿庙 and the Fushoutan 福寿坛. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 goes to each household to quandeng 圈灯 link lanterns, and to practice the Dao 行道. Opera is performed for three days with funds raised on a per capita basis from within the Songban ritual alliance. On 1/17 the gods of the Fushougong 福寿宫, Fushoutan 福寿坛 and Fushoumiao 福寿庙 go on a procession of inspection around the boundaries of the village, and race across a bonfire. At 2 o’clock in the afternoon, boys from the village draw lots to see who will be allowed to carry the gods across the bonfire. On 2/1, the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Liu 刘. On 2/2 the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Ke 柯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday of Peng zhongjun 彭中军. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5/5: The Duanyang 端阳 festival is celebrated and opera is performed for five days. 5/7: The birthday celebration of the Five Gongchen of Taipingbei 太平陂 五功臣 and Peng zhongjun 彭中军. Funds are raised on a per capita basis from the villages of Xiacuodian 下厝店, Sizhou 泗营, Xiapo 下坡 and Daopo 道坡. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis within the village or by voluntary donations. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Baiyuan 白园 1. Village settlement Baiyuan includes Tianluokeng 田螺坑 belongs to the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 800 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘, making up close to 70% of the population. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Fushoumiao 福寿庙 Yulingong 毓麟宫: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhuojiao jiangjun 卓角将军, Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Yongshoushê 永寿社, Juyundong 聚云洞 The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 there is a procession of the gods within the thirteen jia 十三甲. On 1/18 all the gods of Yongshoushê 永寿社 go on procession within the village. Birthday celebration of the gods On a day determined by divination, in the fourth lunar month, the birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V565 Xiangtou 巷头 1. Village settlement Xiangtou village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 200 people living in Xiangtou village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples Yanshou gong 延寿宫; Yongshanshê 永善社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the shêlu 社炉 is carried in procession to every household within the village to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/17, the villagers participate in the procession of gods throughout the thirteen jia 十三甲 ritual association. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. 7/23: the birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two to three days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis and by voluntary donations. 
V566 Lingqian 岭前 1. Village settlement Lingqian village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Lingqian village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxinggong 永兴宫 is co-owned with Pudun 埔墩 village. The main gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Yongxingshê 永兴社: built in 2003. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Fushougong 福寿宫 is invited to xingdao (practice the Dao) 行道 in every household. On 1/13 all the gods of Yongxinggong 永兴宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 1/15: Birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4/15: Birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 
V567 Pudun 埔墩 1. Village settlement Pudun village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 400 people living in Pudun. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Shangling zushê 上凌祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yonglingdong 永灵洞: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Fushougong 福寿宫 is invited to xingdao (practice the Dao) 行道 in every household. On 1/15, all the gods of Yongxinggong 永兴宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V568 Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 1. Village settlement Dingcuowei village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Dingcuowei has a population of over 500 people. The main livelihoods are agriculture but many female workers work in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Xu 徐, Zhuang 庄, Yao 姚, Cai 蔡 (two households), and Weng 翁(one household). The Chen 陈 came from Dongyang village 东阳 in Chengxiang 城厢. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxinggong 新兴宫: The temple was renovated in 1982. The gods worshipped are: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Li sanfuren 李三夫人. 2) Xinfeng beishê 新丰北社 has an inscription on a pillar dating to Guangxu 14 (1888). Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Toutiaoxi 头条戏 is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–14, a procession is held within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/15: A celebration is held for Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/13: A celebration is held for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: A celebration is held for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/19: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V569 Putou 埔头 1. Village settlement Putou village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Putou has approximately 900 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yao 姚 and the He 何. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Weng 翁. The Yao 姚 came from Qinyuan 沁园 in Hanjiang 涵江. The He 何 came from Shandou 山兜 of Jiufeng 九峰 in Wutang 梧塘. The Li 李 came from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Weng 翁 came from Dongpo 东坡 in Wutang 梧塘. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng nanshê 新丰南社: Upper altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝; Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jungong dianshuai 郡公殿帅; Right altar: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Yuyunsi 寓云寺: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–8, the gods go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 3/11: The celebration for Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/13: Is the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 birthday. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5/11: The celebration for Jungong dianshuai 郡公殿帅. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis, at a rate of 2 to 3 RMB/person. Xizheng 西郑 1. Village settlement Xizheng village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Xizheng has over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. During the early years of the Republican period, Xizheng village was devastated by the Nanbei Army 南北军. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu dongshê 集福东社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗. 2) Judetang 聚德堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, processions are held within the village. On 1/14, the incense burners of the temple, the shêlu 社炉, are taken to “practice the Dao 行道” in every household. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/15: Is the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 birthday. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
A125 Jiufeng qijia (Jiufeng seven jia ritual alliance) 九峰七甲 The Jiufeng sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Nangshan mountain 囊山. This area relies on the water of Jiufeng sanba dams along mountain streams 九峰三坝. The alliance includes Lianhe village 联合村, Dinggou 顶沟, Shipaidou 石牌兜, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. It was originally part of the Yishan Dongpu (police/defense unit) 依山东铺 of Yanshouli (sub-canton) 延寿里. Anninggong 安宁宫 in Jiufeng 九峰 village is the main temple for the seven village ritual alliance. Currently, Jiufeng is managed by the Jiufeng Administrative Village 九峰行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into seven jia ritual associations based primarily on settlement. 
V571 Lianhecun 联合村 1. Village settlement Lianhe (united village) includes Niushan 牛山, Caopu 草埔, Gongbian 宫边, and Jiucuofang 旧厝房. There are approximately 900 people living in these settlements. The main livelihoods are agriculture and fruit tree cultivation 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhuang 庄. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Xie 谢. In addition, there are eight main surname groups including the Pang 庞, Huang 黄, Long 龙, Nian 廿, and Fang 方. Each surname group has a similar number of people. The Pang 庞 came from Huian 惠安, and the Huang 黄 came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, while the origins of the other surname groups are unknown. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. There is no common worship on Qingming 清明 festival or on Winter Solstice 冬至. 3. Village temples 1) Jiufengjing Anninggong 九峰境安宁宫 contains the altar of the Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was rebuilt in Daoguang 18 (1838). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Jinzhongjun 金中军. 2) Juyingting 聚英亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Fulintang 福霖堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Zhengben shuyuan 正本书院 is dedicated to the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 209 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–14, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jin zhongjun 金中军 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis from Caopu 草埔 and Gongbian 宫边. On 1/15, the gods of Anninggong 安宁宫 are returned to the temple. A fire walking ceremony is held and palm sedan chairs are raced over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for three days, with five performances in all. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. However, half of the people do not want to donate. 2/19, 6/19, 10/19: All of these dates are Guanyin dashi’s 观音大士 feast days. Opera is usually performed for two days. Contributions are collected on a per household basis from Jiufeng 九峰, Gongbian 宫边 and Jiucuofang 旧厝房, or by voluntary donations. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for one or two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance, or by voluntary donations. 
V572 Dinggou 顶沟 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Dinggou village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. Other surname groups include the Lin 林 and the Deng 邓. 3. Village temples Dexingmiao 德兴庙: The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qiye 七爷. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chair are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. On 2/2, there is a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune). This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: A celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for one or two days. This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 8/15: A celebration of Qiye’s 七爷 birthday. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual organization The title of Fushou 福首 is rotated among those who are over 50 years old. 
V573 Shipaidou 石牌兜 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Shipaidou. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Jiang 江 and the Yan 颜. 3. Village temples 1) Xingyundian 兴云殿: The main god is Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Jiulianyan 九莲岩: The main god is Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. Secondary gods include the Baxian 八仙. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chairs are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 5/18: Birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement There are over 400 people living in Tianzhongyang. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Qiyemiao 七爷庙: The main god is Qiye 七爷. 2) Qinglinggong 青麟宫: Main god: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Xingshanci 兴山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 231 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 8/15: There are birthday celebrations held for Qiye 七爷. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chair are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
A126 Lipu qijing (Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance) 励浦七境 The Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance 励浦七境 is located within the Taiping weir 太平陂 irrigation system. The alliance includes the nine villages of Matou 码头, Dubin 都邠, Xiujiao 秀郊, Chengfeng 澄峰, Qiandongpo 前东坡, Houdongpo 后东坡, and Nankeng 南坑 (Jiangkeng 蒋坑). This region originally belonged to the Yishan xipu 依山西舖 (police/defense unit) of Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里. In the Ming, Banrou 阪头 village was settled. During the Qing, the villages of Dubian 度边, Shudou 树兜, Dubin 都邠, Qianlin 前林, Jiangkeng 蒋坑, Qiandongpu 前东埔 and Houdongpu divided off. This area now is managed by the Matou 码头, Doubin 都邠, Dongpo 东坡 and Hangxia 黄霞 Administrative Villages. In the temple ritual system, Lipu qijing is divided into seven ritual territories according to the distribution of shê temples. The Beijidian 北极殿 of Matou village 码头村 is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. Each year of the dragon Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on a procession through the seven fold ritual alliance. The founding shê-altar temple of the Lipu ritual alliance 励浦祖社 was originally in Xiujiao village 秀郊村 but it burned down in 1918. Nine separate Lipushê 励浦社 were built, one in each village, and the original god statues of the founding altar were also distributed to the various shê temples. In recent years, a new Lipu zushê 励浦祖社 has been reconstructed on the site of the original founding shê temple, and it is managed by representatives of each village temple in the alliance. Each year on 3/23 the birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is celebrated there, and on 4/13 there is a celebration held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人诞辰. On 4/26 a celebration is held for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and on 8/1 a celebration of Fazhu shengfei 法主圣妃 is held. On each occasions, opera is performed for two or three days. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 29 (1849) entitled 鼎建北极殿双圣寝庙赖忠烈田元帅, 袁大人降乩劝缘碑 (Stele on the construction of the Double Deity temple of the Northern Pole Temple due to the raising of funds instigated by the spirit medium writings of the Loyal and Ardent Commander in Chief Tian and Great Lord Yuan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:315, No. 279). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Lipu Qijing were all white banner alliance. 
V575 Matou 码头 1. Village settlement Matou was originally called Bantou 阪头 or Qianlin 前林 and belonged to Matou Administrative Village 码头行政村. The village of Matou has a total population of over 1200 people, living in over 200 households. The village is divided into Qianzhi 前至 and Houzhi 后至 neighborhoods. The main livelihood is farming, with pickled vegetables as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname of Qianzhi 前至 is the Qiu 邱, and there are also the Chen 陈 and the Xiao 萧. The main surname of Houzhi 后至 is the Hou 侯, but there are also minor surnames including the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Liu 刘, the Xiao 萧, and the Ke 柯. The founding ancestor of the Qiu, Master Jizong 继宗公 was a descendant of the Qiu of Jinjiang Shihi 晋江石狮. 3. Village temples 1) Qianlinjing Beijidian 前林境北极殿 is divided into a front and a back hall, and is the main overall temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. In the front hall a beam is inscribed with the date of renovation in Qing Jiaqing 23 (1818). Three stelae survive in the temple, one from Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816), one from Qing Daoguang 29 (1849), and the third from 1981. The front hall central altar is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. The left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, the right altar: Lingguan dadi 右座神帐: 灵官大帝. On the left side is Baiya dajiang 白牙大将. In the left hand hall, called the Ganyingci 感应祠, are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 and some spirit tablets. In the back hall, called the Shuangshengdian 双圣殿, the central altar is dedicated to Shengfu 圣父 and Shengmu 圣母. The left altar: Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥 妙将, the right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The back left hand hall is called the Peiyuan shuyuan 培元书院, and the central altar is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. The right hand hall is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 2) Minantang 民安堂 (also called the Minan shuyuan 民安书院) is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left is Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, and on the right Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the far left side is Hufa longtian 护法龙天, and on the far right Zhida Chen 智达陈先生 and Puyao Liang 普耀梁先生, two late Qing leaders of the Three in One religious movement. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records forty-four initiates. 3) Qianlin Guotaisi 前林国泰寺 belongs to Houzhi 后至. The temple is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi Xuantian shangdi 元天上帝(玄天上帝). 4) Mingshengtang 明圣堂 is divided into three halls and belongs to Qianzhi 前至. The main hall’s (facing south) central altar is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left is Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人 and to the right Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. In the back hall the central altar is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Xiaosheng xianshi 萧圣先师, right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, The lower altar (facing north) central altar is dedicated to Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. The left altar is that of Lipushê 励浦社 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Daye大爷. The right hand altar is for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records forty-five initiates. 5) Qianlinjing Lipushê 前林境励浦社 contains the Xianyingtan 显应坛, and belongs to Qianzhi 前至. The temple was restored in Qing Jiaqing 12 (1807). The central altar is dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, the left altar to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Chifeng Xiao zongguan 敕 封萧总管. The right altar is dedicated to Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Lingtong Zhangsheren 灵通张舍人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 6) Qianlijing Fengyangdian 前林境凤阳殿 belongs to Houzhi 后至 and was restored in 1985年. The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 (called Shenggong 圣公, and to the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, villagers go first to the Lipugong (shê altar) 励浦宫(社) to ask for incense fire 请香火, and then go to the Beijidian 北极殿 to again ask for incense fire, and then return to the Xianyingtan 显进坛 to invite Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 to go on a procession to xingnuo “exorcise the demons” 出巡行傩. On 2/2 the fengjin 奉金 (reverencing with gold) ritual is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 4/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 8/22: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by Houzhi 后至. 11/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed each year on 10/15 or 10/16. Five Three in One Scripture masters are invited from the Tiezao 铁灶 Daotang (Assembly of the Way) to conduct the pudu rites for a day. If there are individuals desiring to repay a vow to the gods they can sponsor a performance of marionette plays at this time. The birthday of gods in Xianyingtan 显进坛 are as follows 1/12 Lintong Zhangsheren 灵通张舍人 1/13 Chifeng Xiaozongguan 敕封萧总管 2/25 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/9 Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯 3/13 Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 4/9 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 6/10 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 7/22 Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘 7/23 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 8/1 Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 5. Ritual Groups The Three in One temples in the village are quite active, and maintain a busy annual schedule of rituals, in addition to daily and monthly rites. There is no Tanban altar association or hereditary spirit medium tradition. In recent years, however, ardent young men of the village have gathered to chant invocations of the gods in the temple, and whoever is able to become possessed becomes the spirit medium. 
V576 Dubin 都邠 1. Village settlement Dubin village was originally called Dubian 度边 or Lubian 路边 and belonged to Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The village has approximately 2500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in Dubin village are the Li 李, the Bao 鲍 and the Guo 郭. There are also families of the Zeng 曾, the He 何, the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Wang 王, and the Wu 吴 surnames. The Li are the Baitang Li 白塘李. It is claimed that their ancestors first moved from Yangwei in Hanjiang 涵江洋尾 to Anxi 安溪, and then later returned to Duotou in Hanjiang 涵江哆头, finally moving to Dubin village from Duoqian 哆前. Up to this time, they have been in the village for sixteen generations. The Li have divided into three branches, and have a total of 160 households in the village. The Bao 鲍 came from Ningbo in Zhejiang 浙江宁波 via Yongchun (Sanyang) 永春三洋. One of their ancestors fled troubles and moved to Dubin village, where he had four children. One had no progeny, but the others founded three branches, which have now reached their eighteenth generation. Originally there was a lineage genealogy. The Guo have divided into the Shangguo 上郭 and the Xiaguo 下郭. The Shangguo moved to the village from Minnan 闽南 and have about twenty households. The Xiaguo moved from Meiyang village in Qiulu 荻芦 梅阳村 and now have over 100 households in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Dubinjing Lipushê 都邠境励浦社 houses the Xianyingtan 显圣坛. The central altar is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The left altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. The right altar is for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, and Qixing niangniang 七星娘娘. 2) Sanshenggong 三圣宫 was originally two temples in front with another hall behind. In 1984 it was rebuilt as a row of three temples. In the central hall of the Xianshenggong 显圣宫, on the central altar, is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. On the left is Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, on the right is Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The left temple is called the Yangshengci 仰圣祠 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Shuizhu xianshi 水珠 仙师 and Liu xianshi 刘仙师. On the left altar are Pufa tianzun 普法天尊 and Wen taishi 文太师, on the right altar is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. The right hand temple is the Fengshengdian 凤圣殿, which is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, locally called Shenggong 圣公. On the left altar is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and on the right altar, Guma 姑妈. 3) Xianyingmiao beijidian 显应庙, 北极殿 is divided into front and back halls. The temple was restored in 1992. The front hall is called the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. To the left is Guan Ping 关平, and to the right Zhou Cang 周仓. Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 are worshipped in the front of the temple. The back hall is called the Beijidian 北极殿 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left is Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and on the right, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Qingyuntang 青元堂 is dedicated to Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. On the left is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, on the right Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 5) Yangshengci 仰圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 with Qianliyan 千里眼 and Xunfenger 顺风耳, on the right is Tiangong yuanshua 田公元帅 with Daye 大爷 further off to the side. 6) Chunyangtang 纯阳堂 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 7) Fuqingsi 福庆寺 is dedicated to Shijia mounifo 释迦牟尼佛. To the left is Weituo 韦陀, and to the right Jialan 迦蓝. The eastern half of the temple is the Dijunmiao 帝君庙 and is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师. The west side is another temple, the Miaoyingtang 妙应堂, dedicated to Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Weituo 韦驮. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, incense fire is requested from the incense burner of Miaoyin zushi 妙应祖师 in the Fuqingsi Miaoyingtang 福庆寺妙应堂. The incense is taken back to the Xianshengtan 显圣坛, where all the gods of the nearby temples are summoned, and the procession prepares itself. On 1/13, in the evening, they again go the Beijidian 北极殿 of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 to invoke all the gods again. Then they use five palm sedan chairs as seats for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (in his martial aspect 武身), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Li sanfuren 李三夫人 who are all taken in a procession to each household. On 1/14 Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师 is escorted back to his temple, and all the gods return to the shê temple. On 1/15, in the night, candles of happiness 喜烛 are lit in the temple (and taken to each household). On 1/15–16, Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮 and opera is performed for two days. On 1/17, all the gods are escorted back to their own temples. Each year ten Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the rituals. From 1/12 onwards, they prepare a vegetarian feast and offerings and place them in a great display before the shê temple. This is called the Liyan 里宴 or “rustic banquet”. Finally, all the boys under the age of fifteen in the village are invited to a feast. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7–8: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 1/15–16: The celebration of the Wenwu zhushen (all the gods) 文武诸神. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and Earth 天地. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7/27: The celebration of Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 8/15: The celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Formerly there was a spirit medium possessed by Qitian dasheng, but at present there are no spirit mediums at the temple. 
V577 Xiujiao 秀郊 1. Village settlement Xiujiao was originally known as Shudou 树兜 and belonged to the Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The entire village has a total of 120 households and more than 700 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, with some handicrafts as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in the village is the Wu 吴, with approximately 110 households. Other surnames include the Jiang 江, with seven households, and the Tang 唐, with three households. The Wu moved to the village from Xizhu 西洙 village near Putian 莆田, and have lived in the village for eleven generations. There used to be a Wu ancestral hall 吴氏祠堂, but it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Xiujiaojing Lipushê 秀郊境励浦社 contains the Fuxingtan 福兴坛. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810) and was repaired in 1981. A stele is preserved in the temple entitled Chongjian Fuxingtan beiji 重建福 兴坛碑记 (Stele record of the reconstruction of the Fuxingtan), dated Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810). The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On the left are Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and on the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝 is in a miniature Beijidian 北极殿 temple in a niche above the altar. On the left is a mural of the Lipushê 励浦社 featuring Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Zhangong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to take charge of the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The celebration of Yuhuang shangdi 玉皇上帝. Representatives are sent to the Lingyundian on Hugong mountain 壶山凌云殿 to ask for the incense of Yuhuang shangdi. Opera is performed for two days. 1/16: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Marionette plays are performed. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 11/15: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed 下元 普度 and marionette plays are sponsored. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village originally had spirit mediums who were possessed by Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Currently, Fuxingtang has two older and several younger mediums, a number of whom are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 each Yuanxiao festival to perform exorcistic dances 行傩. There is also a Three in One temple called the Yangbentang 养本堂. The SJCDCB, 1992 records forty-two initiates. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Xiangmingan 香明庵 in the village. 4/13: 
V578 Chengfeng 澄峰 1. Village settlement Chengfeng belongs to the Huangxia Administrative Village 黄霞行政村. The total village population is over 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yao 姚. They moved to the village from Qinyuan 沁园 over four or five hundred years ago. Currently they are divided into four lineage branches. On 9/9 there is a collective worship of the lineage at the tombs of the ancestors. At Qingming 清明 and Dongzhi 冬至 each family cleans the graves of its immediate ancestors. 3. Village temples 1) Chengfengjing Lipushê 澄峰境励浦社: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wufu dashen 乌府大神, Zhushi sanniang 朱氏三娘, and Ershiye 二使爷. 2) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The other gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 3) Lingfengting 凌峰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. 4) Fengxingan 凤兴庵 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 5) Qiyundian 齐云殿 is dedicated to Songgong yuanshuai 宋公元帅. Other gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Zhu qiboye 朱七伯爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken to each home to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19 the gods of Lipushê 励浦社 are invited to go on a tour of inspection procession through the entire village. The roadways are sealed against demons, and people pray for good fortune. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration for Wufu daren 乌府大人. 5/22: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. 7/16: The celebration for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/1: The celebration for Ershiye 二使爷. 10/17: The celebration for Songgong yuanshuai 宋公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Each year by rotation based on age nine Fushou 福首 are selected to be in charge of the rituals. Two of them, who must be over 60 years of age, are called the senior Fushou, while the seven others are called the new Fushou. 
V579 Dongpo 东坡 1. Village settlement Dongpo was originally called Dongpu 东埔 and belonged to the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. This village was established in the Ming dynasty, and is now divided into two parts, Qiandongpo 前东坡 and Houdongpo 后东坡, with a total population of approximately 5000 people. Qiandongpo 前东坡 has over 3000 people, and Houdongpo 后东坡 has over 1000. The main livelihood is farming, supplement by fruit trees, women working in shoe factories, and villagers from Qiandongpo working in the large Xuejin 雪津 beer factory. 2. Surname groups The entire village of Qiandongpo 前东坡 is surnamed Weng 翁. In Houdongpo 后东坡 the Weng are the main surname group with the Chen 陈 having only one household, and the Lin 林 eight or nine households. The Dongpo Weng lineage claims to have come from Qingjiang 清江 in Huangshi 黄石 or from Beigao 北高. A genealogy of the Jingzhao Weng of Puyang 莆阳京兆翁氏族谱 has been preserved. Two stelae are preserved in the Weng Ancestral hall. These are the Qianlong 5 (1740) 衍庆祠 田园地租碑记 (Stele recording the land rent from the fields and orchards of the Shrine of Expanding Good Tidings) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:229, No. 199) and the Qianlong 36 ( 1771) 翁氏宗祠碑记 (Stele on the Weng Lineage Ancestral Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:250, No. 215). 3. Village temples 1) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Li duyuanshuai 李都元帅, Heihu dashen 黑虎 大神, Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王, Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, Liujin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. At the sides of the door are altars dedicated to Liujin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Hougong shenghou 侯公圣侯. 2) Yizunshê 义尊社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shunlingong 顺麟宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Left altar: Sanwei furen 三位夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Dongxingtang 东兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Left: Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人. Right: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 6) Xingyundian 兴云殿 was rebuilt in 1984, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Liu zhongjun 刘中军. Right: You zhongjun 游中军. 7) Qingyuanmiao 青源庙 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Left: Jin daren 金大人. Right: Jiu daye 九大爷. 8) Yuyun Buddhist temple 寓云寺 was built in the Ming (PTZJZCG, 1992:215) 9) Liben shuyuan 立本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 239 initiates. 10) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 222 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Qiandongpo 前东坡 goes on procession. On 1/12, Houdongpo 后东坡 goes on procession. On both these days, the gods are taken across a bonfire 踏火 and a procession of linked lanterns is held 圈灯. A single Daoist ritual master 道士 is invited to conduct rites. Four palm sedan chairs are prepared for the martial version of Qitian dasheng 武齐天大圣, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅, and Lidu yuanshuai 李都元帅. Four Fushou 福首 from each area organize the ritual activities. Opera is performed each day. On 2/2, a sedan chair is carried out to collect cash contributions. A large sedan chair is prepared for Wugong dutong 吴公都统 and four small sedan chairs and prepared for the (civil version) of Qitian dasheng 文齐天大圣, the martial version of Qitian dasheng 武齐天大圣, Li duyuanshuai 李都元帅, Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, and another procession is held. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/10: The celebration for Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/5: The celebration for Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 7/7: The celebration for Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 9/9: The celebration for Wugong dutong 吴公都统. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These celebrations are organized by the entire village as a whole, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 
V580 Nankeng 南坑 1. Village settlement Nankeng was originally called Jiangkeng 蒋坑. Nankeng village belongs to the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. There are currently 360 people living in the village. Nankeng was originally part of the Lipu xishê 励浦西社 of Jiangkengjing 蒋坑境 of Yanshouli (subcanton) 延寿里 of Tanganxiang (township) 唐安乡 of Putianxian (county) 莆田县 of Xinghua Prefecture 兴化府. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village, including the Li 李, the Huang 黄, the Qiu 邱, the Weng 翁, the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Li 李 came from Duotou 哆头. The Qiu 邱 came from Matou 码头 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Huang 黄 came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang. The Wu 吴 came from Houhuang 后黄 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Kuijugong 奎聚宫 was rebuilt in 1982. The main gods are Xingzai baoyu dawang 行灾保御大王, Beidou Zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, and Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘. 2) Lipu xishê 励浦西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Note: It is said that during the early Republican period, Lipushê 励浦社 was burnt down by the Nanbei Army 南北军, and dispersed to the surrounding villages. 3) 天宪庙 Xianxianiao is dedicated to 李大人, also known as the Xingzai Baoyu dawang 行灾保御大王. The secondary gods are the four dajiang Liu 刘, Zhang 张, Zhao 赵 and Su 苏. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao Rituals On 1/10 the villagers carry the incense burners from the shê temple to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/ 11 there is a procession through the village. A single Daoist master is invited to conduct rites. Three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 and Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘. The village elders carry the statues of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and a Tongzi 童子. There were formerly two Fushou 福首, one old and one new, but currently there are four, with one old and three new, to organize the rituals. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/13: Birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/10: Birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 7/21: Birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人 also known as Baoyu dawang 保御大王. 8/1: Birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, opera is performed four times in the village, each time for lasting for two days. 4 yuan is collected per person each time. 
A127 Huangan qijing (Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance) 黄安七境 The Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance is located within the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂灌溉系统 just northeast of Hanjiang 涵江 city. This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) and the Yishan xipu 依山西铺 of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Xialing 下陵 and Huangxiang 黄巷 were already settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Huangan 黄安, Xiazhuang 下张, Qianlin 前林, Qianhuang 前黄, Cangkou 仓口 and Qianpu 前埔 separated off. These villages are managed by two Administrative Villages: Huangxia 黄霞 and Canglin 苍林行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units, within the seven villages of Huangan 黄安, Xiaxiao 霞霄, Huangxiang 黄巷, Xialin 下林, Cangkou 苍口, Xilin 西林, and Xipo 西坡. Originally there was a founding she-altar in the village of Huangan 黄安, with Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 as the main gods. Because the village was torn down and its lands were converted into an industrial park, the temple no longer exists. Therefore, each village has since built their own independent shê temple. Collective rituals and processions for the entire sevenfold alliance have not been revived. Historically, the Huang lineage of Huanggang 黄巷黄氏 were a prominent local lineage with many examination graduates. In the Ming Zhengtong period (1436–49) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in Qianhuang 前黄 village. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495), a Guoying 国英牌坊 memorial archway was set up in Huanggang 黄巷 village in honor of the Huang lineage. 
V581 Xiaxiao 霞宵 1. Village settlement Xiaxiao village includes Huangan 黄安 and belongs to the Huangxia administrative village 黄霞行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups Surname groups in the village include the Lin 林, the Xu 许, the Liu 刘, the Wu 吴, the Zhang 张, and the Chen 陈. The Lin are the dominant surname group, and claim to be descendants of the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. They state that in the Tang dynasty they moved to the village from Wushi 乌石 in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Xiaxiaojing Huanganshê 霞宵境黄安社 contains the Yongningshê 永宁社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Wanyundain 万云殿 is dedicated to Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁. 3) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4) Kaiyuanmiao 开元庙: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Yingdetang 英德堂 is dedicated to Huangying mama 黄英妈妈. Other gods are Ma jiangjun 马将军 and Huanger jiangjun 黄二将军. 6) Hualitang 化里堂 is dedicated to Qiangong yuanshuai 千公元帅. 7) Qingguangtang 清光堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Guangyuantang 光源堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Dexingting 德兴亭 is also dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10) Shunqingtang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fourteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, each of the nine ancestral houses of the entire village invites the gods to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Meiling 梅岭 of Wutang 梧塘 to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. On 1/16, Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 are carried in sedan chairs on a tour of inspection procession around the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huanganshê 黄安社 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Beijidian 北极殿. 4/9: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Kaiyuanmiao 开元庙. 6/6: The celebration for Fude zhengsheng 福德正神 is organized by the Qingguangtang 清光堂. 8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hualitang 化里堂. 9/17: The celebration for the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongningshê 永宁社 is organized by the village as a whole. 10/25: The celebration for Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁 is organized by the village as a whole. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and rituals are held. 
V582 Huangxiang 黄巷 1. Village settlement The village of Huangxiang is also known as Huanggang 黄冈. The village belongs to the Huangxia Administrative Village 黄 霞行政村. The current population is approximately 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Shang 上 and Xia Huanggang 下黄冈. 2. Surname groups Huangxiang is a single surname village of the Huang 黄 lineage. The village has a history of over 1000 year, when the Huang ancestors moved from Henan 河南. The Huang Great Lineage hall 黄氏大 祠堂 worships Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, the Tang monk who was a member of the lineage. The ancestral hall is a cultural relic of the Hanjiang 涵江 municipality. The tomb of Huang’an 黄岸墓 and the old home of Huang Pu 黄璞故居 have been preserved. Each year on 1/8 members of the Huang lineage from all over the area and from neighboring counties come to worship their ancestors. Opera is performed from 1/6–1/8. There are several stelae and rubbings of stone inscriptions about the Huang Ancestral hall preserved in the hall, including a rubbing of the Qingyuan 2 (1196) inscription by Zhu Xi 朱熹 entitled 唐桂州刺史封开国公谥忠义黄公祠记 (Record of the Ancestral hall of his Honor Huang, posthumously entitled the Loyal and Righteous Governor of Guizhou in the Tang, enfeoffed as the Duke who founded the Nation) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:30, No. 29) and a stele composed in Jiajing 4 (1525) entitled 谕祭大理寺少卿黄巩碑 (Inscription on the Imperially ordered sacrifices to Huang Gong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:152, No. 129). Other texts of inscriptions relating to this hall include that composed by Lin Jun 林俊 in Zhengde 10 (1515) entitled 黄巷黄氏祠 堂记 (Record of Huangxiang Huang Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:140, No. 119), and another composed in Guangxu 11 (1885) by Huang Zhongzan 黄中瓒 entitled 重修黄巷祠墓碑记 (Stele recording the repairs to the Huangxiang shrine ancestral tombs) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:343, No. 306). 3. Village temples 1) Huanggangjing Taipingshê 黄冈境太平社 is the ancestral shê altar of the Huang lineage. The temple was burned down in 1918 during armed conflict and was rebuilt in 1946. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Ciji zhenjin 慈济真君, Shitong dutong 石潼都统, Lingtong sheren 灵通 舍人, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯. 2) Wenwudian 文武殿 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Guohuansi Buddhist temple 国欢寺 was originally the home of two brothers, Huang Niepan 涅磐 and Huang Benji 本寂, in the Tang dynasty. Their parents were buried to the east of home in the 五大夫黄公墓. The brothers moved into the Yanyang temple 延杨寺 and the local government gave the temple the name Guohuan Chanyuan 国欢禅院. In Ming Wanli 1612, the Buddhist monk Ruren 如忍 rebuilt the Great Hall, and bequeathed a Buddhist Tripitaka. In Yongli 4 (1650), the abbot Chaoyuan 超元 went to Japan and became the founder of the Pangui Chan Buddhist order 盘珪禅派. This temple was rebult several times, in 1669 by Buddist monk Chaomin 超旻, and in 1946 and again in 1989. The stone inscriptions about this temple include a text from the Yongle period (1403–1424) composed by Lin Huan 林环 entitled 重建国欢禅寺记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Guoquan Chan Monastery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:90, No. 82). Extent stelae include the Wanli 38 (1610) 莆阳莲山国欢禅院重兴佛殿新造 藏经记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Buddha Hall and the new building of the Buddhist Suttra Hall of the Gouhuan Chongfu Chan Monastery at Lianshan in Puyang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:197, No. 173) and the Jiaqing 20 (1815) 重修国欢古伽蓝并三门功德碑 (Stele recording the merit accrued from the restoration of the Guohuan Ancient Jialan Monastery and three Gateways) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:292, No. 254). 4) Licheng shuyuan 立诚书院 is also known as Shangsheng temple 上生寺. The stone inscription composed by Zheng Yue 郑岳 in Zhengde 15 (1520) entitled 立诚书院记 (Record of the Establishment of Sincerity Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:146, No. 124). The temple includes a shrine to Huang Gong which is commemorated in the inscription composed in Jiajing 23 by Lin Dalu 林大辂 entitled 黄巩祠祀田记 (Record of the purchase of land to support the sacrifices at the shrine dedicated to Huang Gong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:168, No. 146). 5) Wuyuan shuyuan 悟原书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 132 initiates. 6) Hongbentang 宏本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records ten initiates. 7) Zongdetang 宗德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records thirty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Shanghuanggang 上黄冈 invites Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 to each of its households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to go on a tour of inspection procession of the boundaries of their territory. On 1/12, Xiahuanggang 下黄冈 invites Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯 to each of its household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to go on a tour of inspection procession of the boundaries of their territory. On 1/15, the entire village celebrates Yuanxiao, and each household goes to the ancestral hall to light lanterns and candles. Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师 is taken on a procession around the village, and the roadways are sealed from demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Opera is performed for eight days. 5/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/4: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Opera is performed for two days. 10/19: The celebration of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. 
V583 Xialin 下林 1. Village settlement Xialin village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. Xialin village has a population of over 600 people living in approximately 150 households. The village is small and land is scarce. All around factories have taken most of the land. The main livelihood now is leaving the village to go work in factories, and farming is only a supplement. A minority work on firing porcelain tiles. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Zeng 曾. There are also many other surnames including the Zhang 张, the He 何, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, the Cui 崔, the Lin 林, the Yao 姚, the Liu 刘, the Zhuang 庄, the Fang 方, the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. The Zeng have divided into two branches, known as the Dazeng 大曾 and the Xiaozeng 小曾. The Dazeng come from Jikui 集奎 in Hanjiang 涵江, the Xiaozeng come from Xialin 下林 near Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Xialinjing Yongxingshê 霞林境永兴社 branched off from the ancient Huangan 黄安 shê altar, but was demolished in 1958 and only recently has been rebuilt on its original foundations. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑. 2) Xialing Longfenggong 霞陵龙峰宫 was restored in 1988. The main altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. On the front altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 or 1/10, divination blocks are cast to invite Jin daren 金大人 to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Two palm sedan chairs are prepared for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Dutong yuanshuai 都统元帅 or Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on procession within the village. At night a procession of lanterns traces the boundaries of the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to recite scriptures and hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year, four Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility. Two of them hold the old incense burners, and two hold the new ones. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2/10: The celebration of Chenshi furen 陈氏真人. 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3/2: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/13: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣. 4/23: The celebration of Shui shengwang 水圣王. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗 星君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/26: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 10/1: The celebration of Jin daren 金大人. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On five of these occasions opera is performed for two days, and the other gods are invited to watch the plays. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xialin village had a tanban 坛班 altar association in the past, but in recent years it has not been revived, and no guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place. There is a Three in One hall called the Fudetang 复德堂 dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 
V584 Cangkou 苍口 1. Village settlement Cangkou village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. There are approximately 400 households today in Cangkou village, which has a population of approximately 2000 people. The main livelihood of the village is agriculture. Vegetable gardening is the main sideline. Other sources of income include working in construction. Very few are in trades. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 许. Other surnames include the Yao 姚, the Guo 郭, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Gong 龚 (one household). 3. Village temples 1) Qilin zonggong 麒麟宗宫 is the main overall temple for the three villages of Cangkou 苍口, Xipo 西坡, Xilin 西林. The temple has four subordinate shê altars 四社. These are the Cangfeng 苍峰 (Canglin 苍林) Yonganshê 永安社, the Yongningshê 永宁社 of Xipo 西坡, the Huangan xishê 黄安西社 and the Xilin 西林 (Qianhuang 前黄) Taipingshê 太平社. The main god is Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Cangfengjing Yonganshê 苍峰境永安社 contains a Beijidian 北极殿, and was restored in 1984. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Beijidian is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Cangfengjing Yongningshê 苍峰境永宁社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Biyundian 碧云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Qixing niangniang 七星娘娘. Right altar: Guangong dijun 关公帝君. 5) Yangxingtang 养性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. 6) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 7) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fifty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 and 1/10 the Yonganshê 永安社 and Yongningshê 永宁社 combine to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. The procession includes three village elders who carry the incense burners of the shê altars. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7–8: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Representatives are sent to Hugong Mountain Lingyundian temple 壶山凌云殿 to request incense fire 香火. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. The celebration of Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The celebration of Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the 永安社 Yonganshê. 10/25: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongningshê 永宁社. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 12/5: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by five or six Three in One Scripture Masters from the Anbentang 安本堂经师. 5. Ritual Groups The Yongningtang 永德堂 is managed by a Buddhist nun, and is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. The village Three in One hall is called the Anbentang 安本堂 and was restored in 1993. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教堂, left altar: Zhang Sanfeng zhenren 张三丰 真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchan dijun 文昌帝君, Weituo韦驮 (Hufa longtian 护法龙天) and Wen taishi 文太师. 3/3: 3/13: 4/20: 6/6: 7/23: 8/13: 9/24: 
V585 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement Xilin village was originally known as Qianhuang 前黄 or Qianlin 前林. The village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. The village has a population of approximately 260 people living in around 56 households. Most villagers leave the village to seek work in factories. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 is the dominant surname group, but there are also the Su 苏, the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Xu 许 and the Lin 林 households. The Xu moved to the village from Cangkou 苍口. The Lin 林氏 came from Baisha 白沙 in the mountains. 3. Village temples 1) Qianhuangjing Taipingshê 前黄境太平社 was restored in 1987. The temple is dedicated to Chifeng jiade zunhou 敕封嘉德 尊侯 (the Shêgong 社公) and Yide furen 懿德夫人 (the Shêma 社妈), Jingong daren 金公大人, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. On the left are Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the right are Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Sanxingtang 三星堂 branched off from the Kaibentang 开本堂 and is dedicated to Sanjiao xiansheng 三教先生, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the recently married young men of the village carry a sedan chair with Jingong dare 金公大人, while others prepare five palm sedan chairs for Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and take them on a procession around the village. Each year two Fushou are selected by rotation to manage the festivities, and funds are collected on a per capita basis to pay for opera. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/13: The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is held in the home of the Fushou. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/15: The celebration of Jiade zunhou 嘉德尊侯 and Yide furen 懿德夫人. 8/23: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 9/15: The celebration of Jingong daren 金公大人. Because the village is small, on most birthday celebrations of the gods only offerings are set out, and opera is not performed. Usually opera is performed once on 11/25 for all the gods. 
V586 Xipo 西坡 1. Village settlement Xipo was originally called Qianpu 前埔. The village belongs to the Canglin administrative village region 苍林行政村. The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Liang 梁 surname group is the dominant one. There are also four households surnamed Chen 陈 and two households surnamed Huang 黄. The Liang came to Xipo from Hushi 笏石. They are divided into seven branches. There used to be a Liang ancestral hall in which the spirit tablet of the founding ancestor Master Dexing was worshipped, but it has been torn down. The Liang are now in their fifteenth generation. Behind the village at the edge of the mountains is the tomb of Liang Puyao 梁普耀, a leader of the Three in One in the late Qing and Republican period. He is worshipped alongside Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the Three in One temple in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Xipojing Huangan xishê 西坡境黄安西社 branched off from the ancient Huangan shê altar 古黄安社. The main gods are Shuigou shengwang 水沟圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 (locally referred to as shiwuma 十五妈). Right altar: Yugong yuanshuai 余公元帅 and Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军. The temple preserves an inscription copied from the temple gazetteer stating that the temple was rebuilt and endowed with land in the Qing dynasty by Liang Shitong 梁士通 and Liang Wenrong 梁文融, and was rebuilt again in Qing Tongzhi 8 (1869), then was restored in 1917 and again renovated in 1948. Then in 1951 all the gods were destroyed, but in 1982 the god statues were recarved, and in 1992 the temple was restored once more. 2) Xipojing Xianxingdian 西坡境显兴殿 is dedicated to Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3) Juebentang 觉本堂 was built by Liang Puyao 梁普耀 and restored in 1937. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 4) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 5) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 105 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 go on a procession to each household in the village, returning to the temple on the afternoon of 1/12. A single Daoist master is invited to recite scriptures and conduct rites. The doors of the temple are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation. Two hold the incense burners, and the other two hold the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2 or 2/3: A general celebration of the gods 文武诸神 is held and opera is performed for two or three days. 10/15: Xiayuan lanpen pudu 下元兰盆普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by the Three in One Scripture Masters of the Juebentang. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no spirit mediums or Daoists, but over half the village has been initiated into the Three in One religious movement. 
A128 Anminqijing (Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance) 安民七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Anmin is located in the foothills of the Nang Mountain 囊山 and draws its water for irrigation primarily from the Jiufeng dam 九峰三坝 and the Lin Reservoir 林塘 and the Chongqin Reservoir 冲沁塘. In the Ming, the village of Qinxin 冲沁村 was settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Dongxu 东徐, Houlin 厚林, Qianzhai 前宅, Donglin 东林, Nanpu 南埔, Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 divided off. This area was part of the Yishandongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) of Yanshouli subcanton 延寿里. Currently, these villages are managed by five Administrative Villages: Qindong 沁东, Qinxi 沁西, Nanlin 南林, Dongshang 东南 and Xilin 西林行政村. The Anmingong 安民宫 temple, located in Qindong 沁东 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. The main gods are Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year with an intercalary seventh lunar month Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Anmingong 安民宫 goes on a procession through all the villages in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold alliance or Anmin was part of the white banner alliance. 
V587 Qindong 沁东 1. Village settlement The population of Qindong is over 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods called Xincuo 新厝 and Jiucuo 旧厝. The irrigation for the fields comes mostly from the Liuzhuangtan 刘庄潭 irrigation system. Agriculture is highly developed. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 surname group are the main surname groups in the village. There are also the Xu 徐 and the Zhang 张 surname groups in the village. The Yao moved to Qindong from Xincentou 新岑头 in Fuqing 福清 in the mid-Ming. The Yao of Tangtou 塘头 were from Qindong. Other Yao in Putian city, Xianyou county and Xitianwei 西天尾 township all recognize the Yao of Qindong as their ancestors. 3. Village temples 1) Anmingong 安民宫 contains the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社 and is the main overall temple of the Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance七境总宫. The temple was restored in Qing Daoguang 19 (1839), Tongzhi 1 (1862), Guangxu 17 (1891), and in 1981. The main gods are Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Anling shengwang 安灵圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Wudangdian 武当殿 was built in Guangxu 25 (1899) and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Tian daren 田大人, and Ma daren 马大人. 3) Fenglaidian 凤来殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Huangshi xianfei 黄氏仙妃. 4) Yutiandong 雨田洞 was built in 1964 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Deyitan 德义坛 was built in 1947 and is a center for the spirit medium tanban 坛班 altar association. 6) Qingyuanan 清源庵 was built in 1917 (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, Anmingong 安民宫 welcomes back its gods from heaven 接神. On 1/15, Jiucuo 旧厝 invites the gods of Anmingong 安民宫 to go on a procession though their territory. On 1/16, Xincuo 新厝 invites the gods of Anmingong 安民宫 to go on a procession though their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Jiucuo branch 旧厝房. 4/17: The celebration of Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 5/19: The celebration of Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神 is organized by the village as a whole. 6/15: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the village as a whole. Each year with an intercalary seventh month, there is a procession of the god throughout the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. 10/19: The celebration of Anling shengwang 安灵圣王 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Both the 安民宫 and the Deyitan 德义坛 maintain tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and have conducted guanjie 关 戒 spirit medium training sessions in the past. Each year Xincuo 新厝 and Jiucuo 旧厝 separately select Fushou 福首 by rotation based on age. 
V588 Qinxi 沁西 1. Village settlement The village of Qinxi has a population of approximately 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, Dingjiang 顶江 and Xiajiang 下江. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Tiegoutan 铁沟潭 irrigation system. Agriculture is highly developed. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 are the dominant surname group. There are also the Xu 徐 and the Zhang 张 minor surname groups. The Yao are related to those living in Qindong 沁东. 3. Village temples 1) Qinyuanjing Xingxianshê 沁园境兴贤社 includes the Beichendian 北辰殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公圣侯, Qiongcang tiandi 穹苍天地, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Jin zhongjun 金中军. 2) Chongqinjing Zhenwudian 冲沁境真武殿 includes the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, and Song zhongjun 宋中军. 3) Chongxingtan 重兴坛 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Xiangyundian 祥云殿 is dedicated to Yuansheng daren 袁圣大人. 5) Mingshandian 名山殿 is dedicated to Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅. 6) Fuzhentan 福珍坛 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Yuanqingan Buddhist nunnery 源庆庵 (PTZJZCG, 1992:226). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Dingjiang 顶江 takes Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 on a procession around its territory. On 1/14 Xiajiang 下江 takes Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 on a procession around its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized separately by Dingjiang 顶江 and by Xiajiang 下江. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Xiajiang 下江. 4/27: The celebration of Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized separately by Dingjiang 顶江 and by Xiajiang 下江. On years with intercalary seventh lunar months, these groups participate in the procession of the Anmingong 安民宫, and carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 around the entire ritual alliance. 8/8: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. 8/23: The celebration of Yuansheng daren 袁圣大人 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. 8/29: The celebration of Song zhongjun 宋中军 is organized by Xiajiang 下江. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Beichendian 北辰殿, the Zhenwudian 真武殿, the Chongxingtan 重兴坛, and the Fuzhentan 福珍坛 all have spirit mediums 神童, but there are no formal training sessions. Each year Dingjiang 顶江 and Xiajiang下江 separately select Fushou 福首 in rotation by age to take responsibility for the rituals of the year. 
V589 Dongxu 东徐 1. Village settlement Dongxu village belongs to the Qindong Administrative Village 沁东行政村 The current population of the village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups There are two main surname groups, the Xu 徐 and the Li 李. 3. Village temples Dongxujing Jixianqianzhongshê 东徐境集贤前中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 the villagers takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening, there are linked lantern processions, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 possesses a spirit medium 神童 and transmits messages via spirit writing with planchette 扶乩. 
V590 Nanpu 南埔 1. Village settlement Nanpu village belongs to the Dongnan Administrative Village 东南行政村. The current village population is over 700 people. The main livelihood is farming, although some villagers have left to do construction work or to pursue commerce. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village including the Tang 唐, Fang 方, Lian 连, Cai 蔡, and Ruan 阮. 3. Village temples 1) Nanpujing Xingxianshê 南埔境兴贤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Anling shenggong 安灵圣公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Jiulindong 九霖洞 is dedicated to Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 (a Daoist companion of Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩, founder of the Three in One). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 the gods are carried over a fire and return to the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. Marionette plays are performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita and per household basis, along with voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups There are five spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Usually they undergo guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions that last for 1–4 days. There were such sessions held in 1985 for three days and in 1990 for three days. With the exception of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Anling shenggong 安灵圣公, all the other gods possess spirit mediums 神童. 
V591 Dongzhu 东珠 1. Village settlement Dongzhu village belongs to the Dongnan administrative village .东南行政村. The current village population is 670 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 and the Zhuang 庄 are the dominant surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 is connected to the Xinglongan 兴隆庵. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Luban xianshi 鲁班先师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Gongying tongzi 供应童子. 2) Yanniangong 延年宫 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead a procession through the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/20–30 a fengjin 奉金 ritual is performed, for which Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 4/12: The celebration of Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held and opera is performed for two days. 
V592 Houlin 后林 1. Village settlement Houlin village belongs to the Xilin Administrative Village 西林行政村. The village population is approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups Kang 康 and Guo 郭 are the major surnames, while Weng 翁, Lin 林, Li 李, Wang 王, Zhuang 庄, and Zheng 郑 are minor surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Lilinjing Fuchenggong 荔林境阜成宫 contains the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Qiye 七爷, and Baye 八爷. 2) Jiyundian 极云殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the villagers take Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Kanggong shenghou 康公圣侯 in sedan chairs on a procession around the village. They fire-walk before returning to the temple. Opera is performed for two to three days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V593 Xizhai 西宅 1. Village settlement Xizhai village belongs to the Xilin Administrative Village 西林行政村. The village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Kang 康 are the major surname group, while the Huang 黄, the Xiao 肖, the Xu 许, and the Zhuang 庄 are all minor surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xizhaijing Wudanggong 西宅境武当宫 contains the altar of the Jinfushê 进福社, and was built in 1924. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Fuxingdong 福兴洞 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers take Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village, who take part in the Cangkou 苍口 and other village caihua 采花 “picking flowerflames” performances (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). 
V594 Xiashanglin 下上林 1. Village settlement Xiashanglin village belongs to the Nanlin Administrative Village 南林行政村. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, the Nanpai 南牌 and the Beipai 北牌. The population of Xiashanglin is over 1000 people. The main livelihood comes from growing longyan 龙眼树 (dragon eye) fruit trees. Beipai 北牌 has over 200 Christians. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 are the main surname group of Nanpai 南牌 with over 600 people. The Xu 许 are the main surname group in Beipai 北牌 with over 400 people. There are also the Chen 陈 with some twenty households. The Li 李 moved to Xiashanglin from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Xu 许 came from Jiangxi 江西, and are divided into three lineage branches known as Fu 福, Lu 禄, and Shou 寿. The Xu have an ancestral hall in the village 祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglinshengjing Shanglin nanshê 上林胜境上林 南社 belongs to Nanpai 南牌. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jiuchan dashen 纠察大神, and Jiutian shangdi 九天上帝. 2) Shanglin shengjing Xingxian zushê 上林胜境兴贤祖社 belongs to Beipai 北牌. This temple was originally the Xu lineage ancestral hall 许氏祠堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11Beipai 北牌 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through its part of the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao They place Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is palm sedan chair and carry him in a procession around their territory. On 1/12 Nanpai 南牌 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through its territory to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Nanpai 南牌 take Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heihu dachen 黑虎大臣 on a procession around their territory. On 2/1 Nanpai 南牌 and Beipai 北牌 separately hold fengjin 奉金 rituals, and invite Daoist ritual masters form Houlin 后林 to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/12: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by Beipai 北牌. 3/14: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by Nanpai 南牌. 8/15: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is organized by Beipai 北牌. 8/28: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 is organized by Nanpai 南牌. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation depending on their age. Dingshanglin 顶上林 1. Village settlement Dingshanglin belongs to the Nanlin Administrative Village 南林行政村. The population of Dingshanglin is 216 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the dominant surname group. There are also the two surnames of Ke 柯 and Cai 蔡. The Huang moved to Dingshanglin from Huangxia 黄霞 in the Ming. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglin shengjing Xingxian xishê 上林胜境兴贤 西社 is linked to the Jishanmiao 集善庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 2) Shanglin’an 上林庵 belongs to the four villages of Dingshanglin 顶上林, Xiashanglin 下上林, Dongzhu 东珠, and Huibi 灰壁, and is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. The gods go on procession throughout the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to perform rituals on the birthday celebrations of the gods. 
V596 Donglin 东林 1. Village settlement Donglin village belongs to the Nanlin administrative village 南林行政村. Donglin was probably established in the Ming. The current population is over 220 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname group has over 150 people. The Zhou 周 have over 70 people. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and have divided into three lineage branches. The Zhou came from Huangshi Qingpu 黄石清浦 and have divided into two lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Donglinjing Xingxian beishê 东林境兴贤北社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 are taken on a procession through the village. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation based on age. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to perform rituals on the birthday celebrations of the gods. 
A129 Yupo ershê (Yupo two shê ritual alliance) 喻坡二社 
V597 Yupo 喻坡 1. Village settlement Yupo 喻坡 was originally called Yucuo 喻厝. The village is located in the foothills of the Nangshan mountain 囊山. The main source of irrigation is from the Jiufeng sanba 九峰三坝 (three dams on the Nine Peaks). This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/ defense unit) of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. Yupo village was already settled in the early Qing. Currently the village population is approximately 1500 people. The village is managed by the Nanlin Administrative Village 南 林行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê ritual associations, the Shangshê and the Xiashê 上下二社. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the two shê alliance of Yupo was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Yu 喻, Chen 陈 and Fang方. The Yu are said to have moved here from Jiangxi 江西, and have lived in the village for eight generations. They are divided into seven lineage branches 七房, and their lineage genealogy is kept in Shangyu 上喻 near Hangjiang 涵江. The Chen moved here from Kuokou 阔口near Putian city, and are divided into four lineage branches 四房. The Fang moved from Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village Temples 1) Yupojing zhongxiangong 喻坡境重贤宫 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong xianfei 杨氏仙妃 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Xinxianshê 新贤社, Xingantang 兴安堂 is the Xiashê 下社, and belongs to the Yu lineage 喻. The temple was repaired in 1981. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with secondary gods Langong yuanshuai 蓝公元帅 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xinxianshê 兴贤社 is the Shangshê 上社 and belongs to the Chen 陈 and the Fang 方 surnames. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with secondary gods Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenwu zhushen文武诸神. 4) Yuanbentang 源本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. Yupo two shê ritual alliance 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records ten initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Upper and Lower shê (Shang, Xia) 上, 下二社 each separately take the incense burners of their shê altars to each of their households to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao), and then use palm sedan chairs to carry miniature versions of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Yangshi xianfei 杨氏仙妃, Dutong yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and other gods of the assorted gods of the five altars (Wutan liesheng) 五坛列圣 on a procession around the entire village. Each household goes to the temple to light their lanterns and Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual groups There are four spirit mediums 神童. Daoist ritual masters present them with spirit officials 赐功曹, but there has not been any guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions 
A130 Tangxi sanjia (Tangxi three jia ritual alliance) 塘西三甲 
V598 Tangxi 塘西) 1. Village settlement Tangxi is located on the western side of the Jieyang Reservoir 塘颉洋塘. This area was part of the Yishandongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton). This village was already settled in the Qing, and currently the population is approximately 2400 people. The village is managed by the Tangxi Administrative Village 塘西行政村. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage and settlement into three jia ritual associations: Dingjia 顶甲, Xiajia 下甲 and Houpai 后牌三甲. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three jia alliance of Tangxi was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The four main surname groups of the village are the Chen 陈, Li李, Wu 吴 and the Jiang 蒋. The Chen moved here from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and are mostly living in Houpai 后牌. The Li 李, Wu 吴 and Jiang 蒋 live mostly in Dingjia 顶甲 and Xiaji 下甲. Tangxi three jia ritual alliance 3) Village temples 1) Tangxijing Fuangong Chongxingshê 塘西境 福安宫重兴社 is the main temple of the Tangxi three jia ritual alliance 塘西三甲总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Tangxijing jieshuidong 塘西境颉水洞 belongs to Houpai后牌. The main god is Yilieqiansui 伊烈千岁. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Magong daren 马公大人, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Dong jiangjun 董将军 and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Tangxishengjing jietang lishê xunguangmiao 塘西胜境, 颉塘里社, 顺光庙 belongs to Dingjia 顶甲, and was built in 1947. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are secondary gods. 4) Mingjufu 明竹府 belongs to Xiajia 下甲, and is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Longgong yuanshuai 龙宫元帅, Sanwei dama 三位大妈, Sanwei xiannü 三位仙女, Zhou dashen 周大神, Jin dashen 金大神 and Zhu dashen 朱大神. 5) Xitang shuyuan 西塘书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 with Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 as secondary gods. 6) Jieshuige 颉水阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 as a secondary goddess. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Houpai 后牌 takes the incense burners of the Chongxingshê 重兴社香炉 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/14, Dingjia 顶甲 does the same in its own territory. On 1/15, Xiajia 下甲 also does the same in its own territory. On 1/16, the three jia ritual associations hold a collective Yuanxiao festival 三甲总元宵and carry Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 in a procession around the entire village. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Duotou to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Xiajia 下甲. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dingjia 顶甲. 4/19: The celebration of Sanwei xiannü 三位仙女 is organized by Xiajia 下甲. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Houpai 后牌. 8/20: The celebration of Yilie qiansui 伊烈千岁 is organized by Houpai 后牌. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the village as a whole. 11/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. On all of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The Jieshuidong 颉水洞 and the Mingjufu 明竹府 have altar associations 坛班 of spirit mediums, and have already completed their spirit medium trainings 关戒. Each year Fuzhou are selected in rotation on the basis of those who married first. 4/8: 
A131 Zhuopo sanjia (Zhuopo three jia ritual alliance) 卓坡三甲 
V599 Zhuopo 卓坡) 1. Village Settlement Zhuopo was originally called Zhuopu 卓埔. The village is located at the point where the water flows out of the Jieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/ defense unit) of Yanshouli 延寿里. In the Ming the village of Putou 埔头村 was already settled in this area. In the Qing the name of this village was changed to Zhuopu 卓埔. Currently the village population is over 3000 people. The village is managed by the Zhuopo Administrative Village 卓坡 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to lineage and settlement into three jia ritual associations: Tiancen 田岑, Zhaojiao 招角 and Xiacuo 下厝三甲. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Wang 王 and the Liu 刘. There are also households of Chen 陈, Zhang 张, Dong 董, Weng 翁, Lin 林 and Huang 黄 minor surname groups. Xiacuo is a single surname settlement (Wang)下厝. The Wang moved here at the end of the Ming from Gangxia 港下 in Jiangkou 江口. The Wang have divided into three lineage branches 三房. Tiancen 田岑 is a single surname settlement (Liu) as well. The Liu have divided into three lineage branches 三房. Zhaojiao 招角 is a mixed surname neighborhood, and it is said that the residents mostly moved there during the early Qing coastal evacuations from the area “beyond the borders” 界外. 3. Village temples 1) Yunlong shexue 云龙社学, located in Xiacuo 下厝, is the main shê altar and temple of the three jia ritual alliance 三甲祖社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Yin jiangjun 银将军. 2) Nipojing Beijidian Longxingshê 霓坡境, 北极殿, 龙兴社 is in Zhaojiao 招角, and was built in Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Tiangang yuanshuai 天罡元帅 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Xinxingshê 新兴社 divided off from Yunlong shexue 云龙社学. The temple was restored in 1957 by Overseas Chinese and in 1982 it was rebuilt again with the aid of Overseas Chinese and local donors. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, with Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 as secondary gods. 4) Shengzhongtang 省中堂, located in Xiacuo 下厝, is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 5) Zhimingtang 至明堂 in Xiacuo 下厝 is also dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, with Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 as secondary gods. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fifty-five initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Xiacuo 下厝 takes the incense burners of the Yunlongshê 云龙社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/8, Tiancen 田岑 takes the incense burners of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/9, Zhaojiao 招角 takes the incense burners of the Longxingshê 龙兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/10, the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 are carried in a procession around the village. On 1/15, the three jia ritual associations organize a collective Yuanxiao festival 三甲总元宵, and the spirit mediums of each associations 各甲神童join together for a collective procession around the village. On 2/6, the three jia 三甲 collectively distribute talismans and pray for blessings 行符祈安, and invite the spirit mediums of each village to caihua 采花 (pluck the flames—feats of imperviousness to the pain of standing bare-chested in the sparks of a massive Roman candle). Palm sedan chairs run through the streets 跑棕桥. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 龙兴社尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Longxingshê is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Tiancen 田岑. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. 5/16: The celebration of Tiangang yuanshuai 天罡元帅 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Tiancen 田岑. 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups There is an altar association 坛班 of spirit mediums, but there is no organized spirit medium training (guanjie 关戒). There is a set pool of Altar Assistants 扶童 for the Xuanxiao rites, and whoever becomes spontaneously possessed when the chanting begins is the spirit medium for that occasion. 
A132 Hanjiang ershisi pu (Hanjiang twenty-four ward ritual alliance) 涵江二十四铺 The Hanjiang city region is located at the confluence of the three great irrigation systems of the northern irrigated plain, the Mulan Weir 木兰陂, Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 and Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation systems. The Shuixin river 水心河 and the Duanming Sluice Gate 端明斗门 are located in Hanjiang 涵江. This area was part of the Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里 and included several pu (police/defense units) which were also wards and neighboring villages of the market town of Hanjiang. These include the Cantou shabanpu 仓头沙阪铺, Qianhou jiepu 前后街铺, Qingningpu 青宁铺, Xiaoyipu 孝义 铺, Jianhoupu 鑑后铺, Wutai zhongxiaopu 乌台忠孝铺, Louxiapu 楼下铺, Xinqiaotoupu 新桥头铺, Xiaxupu 下徐铺, Gongxiapu 宫下铺, Xiyuan duwei longjinpu 西园后度龙津铺, Xinpaipu 新牌铺 and Yongningpu 延宁铺. In the Ming the area of Hantoushi market 涵头市 and Houdu 后度 and Tangbei 塘北 villages were already settled. In the early Qing, this region developed into a flourishing port and market, and currently these areas have been completely transformed into city streets and apartment blocks. This region is managed by the Handong 涵东 and Hanxi 涵西 Street Management Offices 街道办事处. The temple ritual system is divided up according to traditional wards, and is referred to as the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang 二十四铺. However, currently areas of temple ritual activity are restricted to the following regions: Louxia 楼下, Baowei 保尾, Tangbei 塘北, Puwei 铺尾, Canran 苍然, Yanning 延宁, Xiaxu 霞徐 and Lindun 林墩. Many of these areas are peripheral areas of the expanding city of Hanjiang 涵江. Hanjiang twenty-four ward ritual alliance The Lijiang Chenghuangmiao 鲤江城隍庙 (City God temple) located in Jianqianpu is the central temple of the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang. This temple was first built in Qing Kangxi 5 (1666). The main god is Chenghuang dashen (the City God) 城隍大神. Each year on lunar 1/19 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang at this temple. Also, each lunar 7/15 and 10/15 a pudu ritual is held at the temple for the orphaned ghosts 祭孤仪式. Each year with an intercalary fifth month, the City God is carried in a procession through the streets of Hanjiang and to the surrounding villages. This procession and the related rituals are organized by a temple committee made up of representatives of the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang. Several stelae have been preserved at this temple, including one composed by You Keqing 游珂清 in Jiaqing 13 (1808) and entitled 重建涵江城隍庙碑记 (Stone inscription on the restoration of the Hanjiang City God Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:270, No. 235). In the Ming, the market town of Hantoushi 涵头市 was renowned for its successful examination graduates. Fourteen lineages within the town produced seventeen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and sixty-four 举人 Juren (Provincial Graduates) over the course of the Ming dynasty. The Chen 陈 produced five Jinshi 进士 and sixteen Juren 举人. The Huang 黄 produced four Jinshi 进士 and eleven Juren 举人. The Lin 林 produced one Jinshi 进士 and seven Juren 举人. The Zheng 郑produced one Jinshi 进士 and five Juren 举人. The Li 李 produced two Jinshi 进士and three Juren 举人. The Zhang 张 and the Fang 方 each produced four Juren 举人. The Liu 刘 and the Lu 卢 each produced two Juren 二举人. The Zhu 朱 and the Gao 高 each produced one Jinshi 进士. The Xu 徐 and the Cai 蔡 each produced one Juren 举人. In Ming Zhengtong 11 (1446) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Chen lineage. In Ming Zhengtong 13 (1448) a Zhenjie 贞节牌坊 memorial archway was set up for the Lin lineage. In Ming Jingtai 7 (1456) a Yingkui 应奎牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Qiu 邱 lineage. In Ming Chenghua 2 (1466), a Hanjiang shuyuan 涵江书院 memorial archway was set up. In Ming Chenghua 3 (1467) a Buyu 步玉牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Chen 陈 lineage. In Ming Chenghua 13 (1477) the Chen lineage was again honored with a Kuibi lianhui 奎璧联 辉牌坊 memorial arch. In Ming Chenghua 19 (1483) the Chen were honored once again with a Zhejie memorial arch 贞节牌坊. In Ming Hongzhi 12 明弘治 (1499) the Qiu were again honored with a Jinshi memorial arch 进士牌坊. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of Yanning 延宁 and Baowei 保尾 were part of the white banner alliance while Xiaxupu 下徐铺 was part of the white banner alliance. Louxia 楼下 1. Village settlement Louxia was originally called Liuxia 刘下, and is located along the side of the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. 2. Surname groups Louxia was originally settled by the Liu 刘, but later became a mixed surname residential area, administered by the Hanxi Street Affairs Committee 涵西街道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Longloushê 龙楼社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 a lantern festival is organized along the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 6/24: The celebration of Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites.
V600 Louxia 楼下 1. Village settlement Louxia was originally called Liuxia 刘下, and is located along the side of the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. 2. Surname groups Louxia was originally settled by the Liu 刘, but later became a mixed surname residential area, administered by the Hanxi Street Affairs Committee 涵西街道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Longloushê 龙楼社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 a lantern festival is organized along the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 6/24: The celebration of Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 