A060 Yushang ershê (Yuhsang two shê ritual alliance) 屿上二社 
V298 Yushang 屿上) 1. Village settlement The two shê ritual alliance of Yushang is located at the beginning of the northern main channel of the Mulan irrigation system, at the start of the Mulan Weir Main Channel 木兰陂沟. This area was part of the Yushang Shimenpu 屿上石门铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南厢里 sub-canton. The village began to be settled in only in the early Qing, and it now has a population of over 1000 people. Yushang is part of the Tieyu Administrative Village 铁屿行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage origin into the two shê ritual associations of Zifu 资福 and Xingan 兴安二社. Each year six shêlu 社炉 (keepers of the incense burners of the shê altar) are selected in rotation. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈. The Chen 陈 are however divided into two distinct lines: the Fushan 浮山 and Jiewai 界外 lines. The Fushan Chen came from Linchuanli 灵川里 sub-canton, south of Putian city, and are related to the Chen of Dongyang 东洋陈氏. They make up some 70% of the village population. The Chen from “beyond the borders” moved to the village during the early Qing coastal evacuation, and now make up 30% of the village population. 3. Village temples 1) Zifu dongshê 资福东社 belongs to the Fushan Chen 浮山陈: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Chenshi zhenjun 陈氏真君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 2) Xing’an shushê 兴安书社 belongs to the Jiewai Chen 界外陈: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Fengchan shimiao 冯禅师庙: The main god is Feng Zhiri Chanshi 冯智 日禅师. Yushang two shê ritual alliance 5) Damafu 大妈府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 6) Zongshengtang 宗圣堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 7) Ciguangsi Buddhist temple 慈光寺 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:203) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and to go on a procession within the village. During the procession the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 are rapidly turned upside down to manifest the presence of the god and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Lanterns are paraded at night. On 1/15 the gods of Zifu dongshê 资福东社 and Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/15: The birthday celebration Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙. Marionette opera is performed. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zongshengtang 宗圣堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held and marionette opera is performed. 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, except the birthday of Sanyi jiaozhu, which is celebrated by the initiates of the Three in One and interested villagers, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A061 Huangtou ershê (Huangtou two shê ritual alliance) 黄头二社 
V299 Huangtou 黄头 1. Village settlement Huangtou is also called Hangtou 杭头. The village is located just north of the Hangkou dike 杭口堤 along the northern banks of the Mulan 木兰 river, near the main channel emerging from next Huangtou two shê ritual alliance to the Mulan Weir. This area was part of the Huangtou dongbeipu 黄头 东坡铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南厢里 sub-canton. The village was already settled in the Ming, and now has a population of approximately 900 people. Huangtou is part of the Mulan Administrative Village 木兰行政 村. Its temple ritual system is divided into the two shê ritual associations of Yongxing 永兴 and Xingxian 兴贤二社. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林 which is divided into the following seven lineages branches: Jingdou 井兜, Dingcheng 顶埕, Xiacheng 下埕, Cuowei 厝尾, Houpai 后派, Taocuo 桃厝 and Dacuoli 大厝 里. In Ming Hongzhi 4 (1491) the Xinghua Prefect set up a Mingzhuo 鸣琢 牌坊 memorial archway in honor of Lin Zhen 林珍 and Lin Bencong 林本 从 of this lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Fuying tang 福应堂 contains the altar of the Yongxingshê 永兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Huye jiangjun 虎爷将军, Baban 八班, Asan 阿三, and Asi 阿四. 2) Xingxianshê 兴贤社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 3) Yueboting 月波亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Jialan 迦蓝 and Weituo 韦驼. 4) Tiantanfu /天坛府: It is said that this temple was built in the Yuan dynasty and rebuilt in the Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main god is Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 5) Zongfuci 宗福祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Hufa tianzun 护法天尊, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, Xu daren 徐大人, Ada 阿大 and Aer 阿二. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 43 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公 元帅 and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 are taken to practice the Dao 行道 in every household in a procession around the village. At night there is a lantern procession around the village boundaries. On 1/14 the gods of the Fuxingtang 福兴堂 are taken on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongxingshê 永兴社. 4/13: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 10/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xingxianshê 兴贤社. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Either the village organizes the ritual as a whole, or the individual shê and its community organize the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from the respective community. 
A062 Caizhai ershê (Caizhai two shê ritual alliance) 蔡宅二社 
V300 Caizhai 蔡宅) 1. Village settlement Caizhai village is located alongside the Lixun Reservoir 沥浔塘, and draws its water from the mountain springs of Fenghuang Mountain 凤凰山. Caizhai village was originally part of the Caizhai Nansikoupu 蔡宅南寺口铺 (police/defense unit). The village had already been settled in the Song, and currently has a population of around 700 people. Caizhai belongs to Tangpo Administrative Village 棠坡行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided into two shê ritual alliances on the basis primarily of lineage affiliation. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cai 蔡 and the Shi 施. These were prominent families 望族 living in this village since the Song Dynasty. The Cai are the descendants of Song Prime Minister Cai Xiang, and there is a Cai ancestral hall 蔡氏祠堂 in the village. The Song Military Prefect set up a Zhonghui 忠惠牌坊 memorial archway in commemoration of the Prime Minister. In Ming Chenghua 7 (1471) the Fujian Provincial Governor ordered the Xinghua Prefect to re-erect the memorial archway. The Cai ancestral hall preserves a stele composed in Hongzhi 10 (1497) by Lin Jun 林俊 entitled 忠惠公祠堂祭田记 (Record of the sacrificial lands of the Shrine to Cai Xiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:126, No. 109). Other stone inscriptions about this hall include that composed in Chenghua period (1465–1487) by Chen Jun 陈俊 entitled 蔡氏祠堂记 (Record of 
A062 Caizhai two shê ritual alliance Cai Ancestral Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:113, No. 101) and another composed in Hongzhi 9 (1496) by Zhou Ying 周瑛 entitled 重修蔡忠惠祠 记 (Record of the restoration of the Shrine to Cai Xiang, the Loyal and Kind) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:125, No. 108). 3. Village temples 1) Longshan shanggong 龙山上宫: The main god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Sanwei zhenjun 三位真 君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Wushi shengfei 吴氏 圣妃, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Linggan zhongshê 灵感中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 3) Yining dongshê 义宁东社 belongs to the Cai 蔡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4) Hongrenju 弘仁居 is linked to the Dayefu 大爷府: The main gods are Huang Daye 黄大爷, Li Daye 李大爷, and Xie Daye 谢大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Shi 施 take the gods of Longshan shanggong 龙山上宫 on a procession within their territory. These events are organized by the Linggan zhongshê 灵感中社. On 1/16 the Cai 蔡 take the gods of Longshan shanggong 龙山上宫 on a procession within their territory. These events are organized by Yining dongshê 义宁东社. On both days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals and funds are collected on a per capita basis within the respective territories. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 4/11: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Linggan zhongshê 灵感中社 is organized by the Shi 施 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 9/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yining dongshê 义宁东社 is organized by the Cai 蔡. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funding is raised on a per capita basis within the sponsoring neighborhood or lineage, or throughout the village as a whole. 
A063 Xialin ershê (Xialin two shê ritual alliance) 下林二社 
V301 Xialin 下林) 1. Village settlement Xialin village is also called Xialin 霞林 and Xialing 下陵. The village is located along the edges of the Lixun Reservoir 沥浔塘 畔, and mostly draws its water from the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system. The area was part of the Xialinpu 下林铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南 厢里 sub-canton. The village was already settled in the Ming, and currently has a population of over 3000 people, who are under the administration of the Xialin Administrative Village 霞林行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis primarily of lineage and residential location into two shê ritual associations, each with their own shê temple (see below): these are the Shangshê 上社 (upper) and the Xiashê 下社 (lower). 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 the Weng 翁 and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 emigrated from Lingchuan fushan 灵川浮 山 and they are related to the Chen of Dongyang 东阳陈. The Lin 林 are members of the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 lineage, and are divided into two lineage branches, namely the Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林. 3. Village temples 1) Longshan zugong 龙山祖宫 contains the altar of the Longshanshê 龙山社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, Fazhu niangniang 法主娘娘, Cigan shengmu 慈感圣母, Tongxian shengfei 通仙圣妃, Lixian shengfei 李贤圣妃, Jingong dajiang 金公大将, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, and Baban 八班. 2) Xinglongshê 兴隆社 belongs to the Lin 林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Zixingfu 紫星府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周 仓, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4) Zixiagong 紫霞宫 belongs to the Weng 翁. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5) Zhongxiatang 中霞堂 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Jinjia wudaren 金甲吴大人. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 50 initiates. Xialin two shê ritual alliance 6) Wenchangge 文昌阁: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Daxiong 大兄. 7) Fuqitang 福祗堂: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Xu dage 许大哥 and Su erge 苏二哥. 8) Mingfenggong 明峰宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 9) Qingliantang 青莲堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驼 and Jialan 迦蓝. 10) Deyitang 德义堂: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Kongfu daren 孔府大人. 11) Guanyinge 观音阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 12) Shuiyuetang 水月堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 13) Wangmudian 王母殿: The main god is Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 14) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:14 claims that there are 100 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the Chen 陈 and the Xia Lin 下林 carry the shêlu 社炉 (incense burner of the shê altar) and the goddess Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to every household to practice the Dao 行道 and then go on a procession within their territory. On 1/15–16 the Weng 翁 and the Shang Lin 上林 carry the shêlu 社炉 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/17 the gods of Longshan zugong 龙山祖宫 and Xinglongshê 兴隆社 are invited to go on a joint procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/17: The first opera is performed in Xinglongshê 興隆社. This event is organized by the Lin 林. 1/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Guanyinge 观音阁. Marionette opera is performed. 2/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinglongshê 兴隆社 is organized by Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 separately. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the whole village. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Weng 翁. 3/29: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 is organized by the whole village. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 (Earth god 土 地公) is organized by the whole village. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Shuiyuetang 水月堂. Marionette opera is performed. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Deyitang 德义堂. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Chen 陈. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Chen 陈. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by the Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 separately. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Jinjia Wu daren 金甲吴大人 is organized by the Chen 陈. 10/29: The birthday celebration of Jinggong dajiang 金公大将 is organized by the surname of Lin 林. 11/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Longshanshê 龙山社 is organized by the whole village. Most of these occasions involve performances of opera and Daoist rites. Funding is raised on a per capita and/or voluntary basis within specific neighborhoods, temple communities, or the village as a whole. 
A064 Dongpo ershê (Dongpo two shê ritual alliance) 东坡二社 
V302 Dongpo 东坡 1. Village settlement Dongpo is also known as Dongpu 东埔 and Tangpo 棠坡. The village is located along the edges of the Lixun Reservoir 沥浔塘 畔, but most of its water comes from the irrigation channels leading from the Mulan 木兰 Weir. The area was part of the Huangtou Dongpopu 黄头 东坡铺 (police/defense unit) of Nanxiangli 南厢里 sub-canton. The village was already settled in the Ming, and currently the population is around 2700 people. The village is part of the Tangpo Administrative Village 棠坡行政村. The local temple ritual system divides primarily on the basis of residence into two shê ritual associations, called the Upper and Lower Shê 上, 下二社. Each year they select six Fushou 福首 in rotation to manage the ritual activities. 2. Surname groups There are nine surname groups in this mixed surname village. The most historically prominent of them are the Zeng 曾, who produced a Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) in the Ming dynasty, and who were therefore regarded as a prominent lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Lishui shangshê 沥水上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐 天大圣. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu xianfei 
A064 Dongpo two jing ritual alliance 法主仙妃, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Yixingjun 一星君, Erxingjun 二星君, Sanxingjun 三星君, Li chaoguan 李朝官, and Ertaiye 二太爷. 2) Lishui zugong 沥水祖宫 (Xiashe下社): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chunfu daren 春府大人, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Huangfu shuaiye 黄府帅爷, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Yiwei zhenjun 一位真君, Erwei zhenjun 二位真 君, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, and Fanghuo jiangjun 防火将军. 3) Deyangci 德仰祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Miaoshantang 妙善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Meicheng gong 美城宫: The main god is Cuifu Li dama 崔府李大妈. 6) Zhijiean 志节庵: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驼 and Jialan 迦兰. 7) Wanyongfu 万永府: The main god is Wanfu dama 万府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 the Shangshê 上社 invites the gods of the Lishui shangshê 沥水上社 to go on a procession within its neighborhood. These events are organized by the Shangshê 上社. On 1/14– 15 the Xiashê 下社 invites the gods of the Lishui zugong 沥水祖宫 to go on a procession within its neighborhood. These events are organized by the Xiashê 下社. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Shangshê 上社. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sanxingjun 三星君 is organized by the 沥 水上社 Lishui shangshê. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士is organized by Miaoshantang 妙善堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Deyangci 德仰祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xiashê 下社 is organized by Xiashê 下社. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Cuifu Li dama 崔府李大妈 is organized by the village as a whole. 9/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shangshê 上社 is organized by the Shangshê community 上社. On most of these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters (or Three in One scripture masters) are invited to conduct rites. Funding is raised on a per capita basis either throughout the village or in specific shê neighborhoods. Some rites are supported through voluntary contributions. 
A065 Xiahuang qijing (Xiahuang sevenfold ritual alliance) 下黄七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Xiahuang is located north of the Bantouduan of the dikes along the twisting northern bank of the Mulan 木兰 river and gets its water from a series of secondary canals leading off from the main channel of the Mulan irrigation system. These villages were originally part of the Xiahuangjing 下黄境 of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Qing the following villages were settled: Xiahuang 下黄, Xiadu 下度, Huangcuodun 黄厝墩, Daiwei 埭尾, Xiecuo 谢厝 (Shecuo 社厝), Xiaocuo 肖厝, Houdun 后墩 and Bantou 坂头. Later, due to a change in the course of the Mulan river, Daiwei 埭尾 village was divided into Upper Shangdaiwei 上埭尾 and (Lower) Xiadaiwei 下埭尾. Currently the area has nine villages, which are managed by the following Administrative Villages: Xiahuang 下 黄, Xiaocuo 肖厝, Bantou 坂头 and Xinxi 新溪行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to the original village shê altars into seven ritual territories 七境. The Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫 in Xiahuang 下黄 was orginally the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 and Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君. It is said that formerly during the Yuanxiao festival Huanggong ershi was carried in a procession to all the ritual territories of the region. Currently the collective procession and rites have not yet been restored, and the Zhaoling zonggong has become the village temple of Xiahuang 下黄 village. 
V303 Xiahuang 下黄 1. Village settlement Xiahuang village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Xiahuang is approximately 560 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫 contains the altar of the Yiliang xiabeishê 义良下北社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang Xiahuang sevenfold ritual alliance 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Guansheng dijun 关 圣帝君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Zhoucang jiangjun 周仓将军, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Huban daren 虎班大人. 2) Shanhuahui 山花会: The main god is Xufu daren 徐府大人. 3) Guanyinting 观音亭: The main god Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫 (apart from Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) on go a procession within the village. On 1/18 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V304 Xiadu 下度 1. Village settlement Xiadu village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Xiadu is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups There are five surnames in the village and no one dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yiliang dongshê 义良东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Suitianci 随天祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 40 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Yiliang dongshê 义良东社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V305 Huangcuo 黄厝 1. Village settlement Huangcuo was originally called Huangcuodun 黄厝 墩. Huangcuo village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政 村. The population of Huangcuo is approximately 380 people. 2. Surname groups There are thee surnames and no single dominant surname group. The main surname groups are Lin 林 and Chen 陈. 3. Village temple 1) Zhaoling xingong 昭灵新宫 contains the altar of the Yiliang xiabeishê 义良下北社: This temple was built during the late Qing and was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Chifeng ancha yushi 敕封按察御使, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣 候, Chengong ershi 陈公二使, and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Zhaoling xingong 昭灵新宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/14: The birthday celebration of Chengong ershi 陈公二使. 5/20: The birthday celebration of Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯. 7/6: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V306 Xiadaiwei 下埭尾 1. Village settlement Xiadaiwei village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village下黄行政村. The population of Xiadaiwei is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Han 韩. 3. Village temples 1) Wenchaogong 汶潮宫 contains the altar of the Yiliang zhongshê 义良中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Yutangmiao 玉堂庙: The main god is Lufu daren 鲁府大人. Secondary gods include Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Jinshanci 金山祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4) Jiuxiandong 九仙洞: The main god is Jiuxianshi 九仙师. 5) Qinglanting 清兰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Wenchaogong 汶 潮宫 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occaisons, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V307 Shangdaiwei 上埭尾 1. Village settlement Shangdaiwei village is a part of Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. The population of Shangdaiwei is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Han 韩. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaoling donggong 昭灵东宫 contains the altar of the Yiliangshê 义良社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. Secondary gods include Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, and Hangong yuanshuai 韩公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Zhaoling donggong 昭灵东宫 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong ersh 黄公二使. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V308 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun was originally called Houdun 厚墩. Houdun village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Houdun is approximately 250 people. 2. Surname groups There are four surnames in the village. The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xiachunjing Xixun dongshê 霞春境西浔东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xixun dongshê 西 浔东社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V309 Shêcuo 社厝 1. Village settlement Shêcuo was originally called Xiecuo 谢厝. Shêcuo village is a part of Xiaocuo Administrative Village 肖厝行政村. The population of Shêcuo is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xie 谢. The secondary surname groups are Yi 蚁, Xiao 肖 and Liao 廖. 3. Village temples 1) Yiliang shangbeishê 义良上北社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Jiutian yingyuanfu 九天应元府: The main god is Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 3) Heyitang 合一堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Weituo zhizun 韦驮至尊. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Yiliang shangbeishê 义良上北社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V310 Xiaocuo 肖厝 1. Village settlement Xiaocuo village is a part of Xiaocuo Administrative Village 肖厝行政村. The population of Xiaocuo is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups There are four surnames. The main surname group is the Xiao 肖. The other surname groups are Qi 祁 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Yiliang shangxishê 义良上西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Xinyungong 新云宫: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Cuifu erma 崔府二妈, Cuifu sanma 崔府三妈, Cuifu sima 崔府 四妈, Cuifu dage 崔府大哥, Cuifu erge 崔府二哥, Lufu huangcong 鲁府黄 聪, Lufu baicong 鲁府白聪, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Wuwei daren 五 位大人, Jinye junnü 金叶军女, Huangyan junnan 黄燕军男, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Zhengyici 正一祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Qingyuantang Buddhist hall 清源堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992, P.203) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Yiliang shangxishê 义良上西社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/21: The birthday celebration of Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候. 7/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes these rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V311 Bantou 坂头 1. Village settlement Bantou village is a part of Bantou Administrative Village 坂头行政村. The population of Bantou is approximately 3000 people. 2. Surname groups There are three important surnames. The main surname group is the Lin 林. The secondary surname groups are Wu 吴 and Cai 蔡. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qianlin 前林, Houlin 后 林 and Wucai 吴蔡. There are 600 Christians in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Banhu yiliangshê 坂湖义良社 belongs to the Lin 林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Liu daren 刘大人, Cai zhongjun 蔡中军, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Yiliang xinshê 义良新社 belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Cai 蔡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Beixiadong 碧霞洞 is dedicated to Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Caogong daren 曹公大人, Xusanmao jiangjun 许三貌将军, Zhangying jiangjun 张英将军, Liuyi jiangjun 刘义将军, Feicong jiangjun 飞葱将军, Zheng Tianchao jiangjun 郑天 超将军, Lieyi jiangjun 列义将军, Feiying jiangjun 飞英将军, Wang Mao jiangjun 王毛将军, and Baiyundong huangerxiong 白云洞黄二兄. 4) Mingchengtang 明诚堂: The main god is Wufu daren 乌府大人. 5) Zhengyitang 正一堂: The main god is Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wu xiansheng 吴先生, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 64 Three in One initiates in this temple, and that Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is also worshipped. 6) Faxingci 法兴祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims that there are 39 initiates. 7) Meiban shenggong 湄坂圣宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天 上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of the Yiliangshê 义 良社 are invited by Qianlin 前林 to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16 the gods of the Yiliangshê 义良社 are invited by Houlin 后林 to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16, the gods of the Yiliang xinshê 义良新社 are invited by the Wu 吴 and the Cai 蔡 to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/4–5: Reception of the gods 接神 back from heaven leads to the performance of the year’s first opera Touchangxi 头场戏. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yiliang xinshê 义良新社 is organized by the surnames of Wu 吴 and Cai 蔡. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Qianlin 前林. 3/11: The birthday celebration of Yanggong daren 杨公大人 is organized by Houlin 后林. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Wu 吴 and Cai 蔡. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qianlin 前林 and Houlin 后林. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is organized by Houlin 后林. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Houlin 后林. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is organized by Qianlin 前林. 8/28: The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Cai Zhongjun 蔡中军. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Wufu daren 乌府大人. 11/15: The birthday celebration of Cao daren 曹大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters or Three in One Scripture Masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/20: 
A066 Liuqiao sancun (Liuqiao three village ritual alliance) 柳桥三村 The three village alliance of Liuqiao is located along the main channel linking the Mulan Weir to what was once the moat around Putian 莆田 city. This area was part of the Liuting wupu 柳亭吴铺 (police/defense unit) of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Ming the village of Liuqiao 柳 桥村 was already settled, and in the Qing Chendun 陈墩 and Wudun 吴墩 separated off. Nowadays, they are managed by the Dingdun 顶墩 and the Xiahuang Administrative Villages 下黄行政村. In terms of the local temple ritual system, the three village ritual alliance of Liuqiao still maintains a relatively independent ritual system. The Chenghugong 澄湖宫 temple, located in Dingdun 顶墩 village, is the main temple for the three village alliance. Every sixty years, Hangong yuanshua 韩公元帅, the main god of Chenghugong, goes on a procession around the three village alliance. It is said that Hangong yuanshuai’s home is in Xiadaiwei 下埭尾 village, so the procession would also make its way to Xiadaiwei on these occasions. In the Ming, the Xie lineage of Liuqiao 柳桥谢氏 was prominent due to its successful examination graduates. In Ming Hongzhi 3 (1490) the Xinghua Prefect set up a Chongxiao 冲宵 archway in honor of the Xie lineage. 
V312 Liuqiao 柳桥 1. Village settlement Liuqiao village is a part of Dingdun Administrative Village 顶墩行政村. The population of Liuqiao is approximately 600 people, living in 120 households. 
A066 Liuqiao three village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xu 徐 and the Ke 柯. The Ke surname group has an ancestral hall 祠堂. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Tang 汤 and Ding 丁. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Xixun xishê 西浔西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Mingshan biedian 名山别殿: The main god is Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帥. Secondary gods include Jin jiangjun 金将军, and Wei Zhongjun 魏中军. 3) Mingyueci 明月祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. 4) Rongxiju 容膝居: The main god is Luofu daren 罗府大人. Secondary gods include Huode yeye 火德爷爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帥. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Luofu daren 罗府大人, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V313 Dingdun 顶墩 1. Village settlement Dingdun was originally known as Chendun 陈墩. Dingdun natural village is a part of Dingdun Administrative Village 顶墩行 政村. The population of Dingdun is approximately 1400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Chenghugong 澄湖宫: The main temple for Dingdun 顶墩, Liuqiao 柳桥 and Wudun 梧墩. The main god is Hangong yuanshuai 韩公元帅. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正 神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Heilong 黑龙, Baigou 白狗, Dage 大哥 Chen qingfu 陈庆福. 2) Xixun zhongshê 西浔中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Meicheng shengmiao 湄澄圣庙: The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. 4) Yuhuangdian 玉皇殿: The main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang wutian laomu 天上武天老母, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣母, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Baogong 包公, Tongguan yuanshuai 统管元帅, and Taishang laojun 太上老君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Chenghugong 澄湖宫 go on a procession within the village. On 2/5 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated by the Chen 陈. On 2/10 the rites of Toufu 头福 are celebrated by the Xu 徐. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village or the surname groups organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The birthday celebration of Hangong yuanshuai 韩公元帅 3/14: The birthday celebration of Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang wuji shengmu 天上无极圣 母. 4/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君 and Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Baogong 包公. Marionette opera is performed. 12/18: The birthday celebration of Tianshang wutian laomu 天上武天老母. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V314 Wudun 梧墩 1. Village settlement Wudun was originally written as Wudun 吴墩. Wudun village is a part of Xiahuang Administrative Village 下黄行政村. The population of Wudun is 665 people. 2. Surname groups There are four surnames. The main surname group is the Wu 吴. The secondary surname groups are Lin 林, Chen 陈 and Xu 徐. 3. Village temples 1) Xixun dongshê 西浔东社 was originally built during the Chongzhen period (1628–1644). The temple was rebuilt both during the Republican period and after the founding of PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Nezha 哪吒, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baima jiangjun 白马将军. 2) Mingyantang 名岩堂: The main god is Mingzhu dawang 明珠大王. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qingmian daren 清面大人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Fushoutang 福寿堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Wusan zhenren 巫三真人 and Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xixun dongshê 西 浔东社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes these events, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A067 Goutou erjia (Goutou two jia ritual alliance) 沟头二甲 
V315 Goutou 沟头 1. Village settlement The Goutou two jia ritual alliance is located on the Mulan irrigation system along the main channel emerging from the north side of the Mulan Weir. This area was part of the Goutoupu 沟头铺 (police/ defense unit) of Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. The village was settled in the Qing, and now has approximately 3000 people, under the management of the Goutou Administrative Village 沟头行政村. The temple ritual system is 
A067 Goutou two jia ritual alliance divided according to lineage and residence into the two jia ritual associations of Qianmian 前面 and 后面二甲. 2. Surname groups There are two main surnames, the Cai 蔡, and the Yu 俞. The Cai live in Qianmian 前面 and the Yu live in Houmiang 后面. 3. Village temples 1) Xiama xinggong 下马行宫 contains the altar of the Xiamashê 下马社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xietian jinjia Wu daren 协天金甲吴大人. Secondary gods include Lingyou shengwang 灵佑圣王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dijun 中天帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weixian shengren 威显圣人, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Chen dutong 陈都统, Dashuima 大水 妈, Lisan daren 李三大人, Erxianggong 二相公, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daxiong 大兄, Erxiong 二兄, and Baban 八班. 2) Qingrongge 青榕阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Wushengdian 武胜殿: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Mingshuigong 明水宫: The main god is Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Mingyuantang 明源堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Zhang zhenren 张真人, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 40 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 the 蔡 Cai of Qianmian 前 面 invite Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/12–14 the Yu of Houmian 后面俞 invite Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃 to go on procession within its territory. On 2/8–9 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On all these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village as a whole, or the lineage living in a particular neighborhood of the village, organizes the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis with the respective social/territorial unit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Mazu 妈祖. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Cigan shengfei 慈感圣妃. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the surname of Yu 俞. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the surname of Cai 蔡. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Lingyou shengwang 灵佑圣王. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Xietian jinjia Wu daren 协天金甲吴大人. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On most of the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village, lineage, or neighborhood organizes the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A068 Xiaotang ershê (Xiaotang two shê ritual alliance) 筱塘二社 
V316 Xiaotang 筱塘 1. Village settlement Xiaotang was originally called Xiaotang 小塘 or Xitang 洗塘. The village is located outside the Putian city walls near the Yongfeng Reservoir 永丰塘畔. The main source of water is from the springs on Fenghuang mountain 凤凰山. This area was part of the Xitangpu 洗塘 铺 of Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. The village was settled in the Ming, and now has a population of around 2300 people, and is managed by the Xiaotang Administrative Village 筱塘行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê altar associations. A stone inscription composed in the Jiajing period (1522–1566) by Zheng Yue 郑 岳 entitled 增修艾轩林先生墓域碑 (Stele on the expansion and repair of the tomb of Master Lin Aixuan) is about this village (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:173, No. 151). 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Xie 解. There are also the minor surname groups of Lin 林, Chen 陈, Zheng 郑 and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Yingxian zushê 英贤祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊 主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵总宫: The main god is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗 星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, 虎爷 Huye, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4) Hunyundian 混元殿 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 365 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社 are taken on a procession around the village by the Huang 黄. Xiaotang two shê ritual alliance There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/15–16 the gods of Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社 are invited to go on procession by the Xie 解. There is a lantern procession at night. On 1/16 the gods of Zhaoling zonggong 昭灵 总宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated by Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社. Cookies are distributed to families 分丁饼. On 2/1–10, the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated by Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingxian zushê 英贤祖社 is organized. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. The Fushou 福 首 and the main temple each offer two days of opera, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingxian shangshê 英贤上社 is organized. 
A069 Nanmen qijing (Nanmen sevenfold ritual alliance) 南门七境 
V317 Nanmen 南门 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanmen is located outside of the Nanmen (South Gate) of the city of Putian 莆田. This area was part of the Huiyipu 惠一铺, the Huiyongpu 惠永铺 (police/defense unit) and the Gouweipu 沟 尾铺 of the Nanxiangli sub-canton 南厢里. In the Ming, this area already had the settlements of Nanmen waijie 南门外街, Gouxiaxiang 沟下巷 and Houxiang 后巷. The current total population is approximately 5000 people, who are managed by the Nanmen Administrative Village 南门行政村. In the recent years, due to the expansion of the urban area, Nanmen village has been completely modified into an urban neighborhood, and its original settlement structures can no longer be recognized. However, since most of the local temples are either well preserved or have been rebuilt in different locations, local inhabitants can still participate in ritual activities according to the original lishê 里社 and temple 神庙 systems. The temple ritual system is divided into seven jing (ritual territories), including Nanmenjie 南门街, Houxiang 后巷, Goudong 沟东, Gouxia 沟下, Gouwei 沟尾, and Nawei 拿尾. The Nanguan Wudimiao 南关五帝庙 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Each Nanmen sevenfold ritual alliance year on 1/20, Wuhuang dadi is taken on a procession around the seven jing of the ritual alliance. The stele composed in Jiajing 33 (1554) by Fan Mei 范 梅 entitled 忠勇白公祠碑 (Stele on the Shrine of the Loyal and Brave Duke Bai) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:174, No. 152) commemorated another temple in this area. The stele is now preserved at the Putian Museum (on the grounds of the former Dongyuemiao). Village Temples 1) Jiuchamiao 纠察庙: Located on Nanmenjie 南门街, this is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanmen. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Jiucha shengshou 纠察圣侯. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Daxiong 大兄, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Nanguan Wudimiao 南关五帝庙, Tianxianfu 天仙府 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东, and was rebuilt in the recent years. The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 3) Nanguan Jiuchamiao 南关纠察庙 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The stone inscription composed by Chen Jin 陈金 in 1642 entitled 创建南关纠察神祠记 (Record of the construction of the South Gate Inspection God Shrine) is about this temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:206, No. 180). 4) Zhenxingtang 真兴堂: The main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 5) Jiushengtang 救生堂: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 6) Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 originally belonged to Nanmenjie 南门街. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baoquan mama 保全妈妈 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 originally belonged to Houxiang 后巷. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Beijidian 北极殿 originally belonged to Houxiang 后巷. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Wanglingguan 王灵官. 9) Shouguang yishê 寿光义社 originally belonged to Goudong 沟东. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Daye 大 爷 and Erye 二爷. 10) Fuxing lishê 福兴里社 originally belonged to Gouxia 沟下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11) Yixing lishê 宜兴里社 originally belonged to Nawei 拿尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong yuanshuai 肖公元帅, and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 12) Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社 originally belonged to Gouwei 沟尾. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 13) Wanshouan 万寿庵. The temple preserves an inscribed Buddhist image composed in Zhizheng 6 (1356) entitled 万寿庵佛像题刻 (Inscription on a Buddhist Carving at the Endless Life Nunnery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:70, No. 63). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the return of the gods to Nanguan jiuchamiao 南关纠察庙 is celebrated with the performance of the year’s first opera Touchangxi 头场戏. On 1/15 after each shê 社 has gone on a procession on their own, each shê comes to Jiuchamiao to worship the gods. The processions carry palm sedan chairs which they twirl and spin while racing around several bonfires. This is referred to as Daozongjiao 倒棕 轿 (inverting the palm sedan chairs). These events are organized by each shê separately, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20 Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each shê participates in the procession by displaying their banners 旗牌. Funds are collected on a per capita basis within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On 2/2, a Chunshê 春社 celebration of the spring sacrifice to the gods of the soil and the harvest is organized by the Fushou 福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 of Houxiang 后巷, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 organized by Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/13: 5/5: 5/13: 5/13: 5/16: 5/28: 6/6: 7/2: 7/23: 8/23: 9/9: 9/26: 10/19: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is organized by Wudimiao of Nanguan 南关五帝庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社. Opera is performed, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanguan 南关, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. Marionette opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Daxiong 大兄 is organized by Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by both Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街 and Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社, and funding is either raised through voluntary contributions or funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Jiucha shenghou is organized by both Jiuchamiao 纠察庙 of Nanmenjie 南门街 and Jiuchamiao of Nanguan 南关纠察庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yongfeng lishê 永丰里社 is organized by the eight masters of the incense burners 炉主 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang yishê 寿光义社 is organized by one master of the incense burners 炉主 and twelve Fushou 福首 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yixing lishê 宜兴里社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxing lishê 福兴里社 is organized by six Fushou 福首 of the shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang shangshê 寿光上社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Shouguang zushê 寿光祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. (Within Nanmen one could ten or fifteen years ago differentiate the settlements of Houxiang 后巷, Goudong 沟东, Gouxia 沟下, and Gouwei 沟尾: although it is difficult nowadays to find these neighborhoods amidst the new high-rises, the following information is appended in the interest of historical accuracy). 11/4: 



 Houxiang 后巷 1. Village settlement Houxiang village had a population of 600 people. The village was divided into two neighborhoods, called Zhoushê 周社 and Chenshê 陈社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups were the Zhou 周 and the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Yu 余 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village Temples 1) Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真 人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 belongs to the Zhou 周. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zongbentang 宗本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhou 周 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Chen 陈 take the incense burner of the shê altar on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. This is organized by the Chen 陈. On 1/22–23 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 are invited to go on procession throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance. There is fire-walking 踏火 by carrying the sedan chairs of the gods through bonfires, and Daoist ritual master are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/27: the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/4: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. 7/16: the celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 10/7: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 of the Jiyi xingshê 积义兴社 is organized by the Zhou 周. Opera is performed. 10/11: the celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Jiqing zushê 积庆祖社 is organized by the Chen 陈. Opera is performed. Goudong 沟东 1. Village settlement The population of Goudong village was over 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin lineage hall 林氏宗祠. 3. Village Temples 1) Guanan dongshê 灌安东社 is located in the main temple of Houzheng 后郑. 2) Fengxiangci 凤翔祠 was built during the Yongle period (1403–1424). The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods are Huangshi shengfei 黄氏圣妃 and Maozhongjun 毛中军. 3) Donglin shuyuan 东林书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods are Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 4) Huilange 回澜阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Zhijiean 志节庵 was rebuilt in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:202). 6) Jincian 净慈庵 was rebuilt after the Cultural Revolution (PTZJZCG, 1992:202). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuanyuan shangdi 玄元上帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 4/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Opera is performed five times over three days. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with opera. Gouxia 沟下 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后 土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Zhonglinci 忠霖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed. The village as a whole organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Gouwei 沟尾 1. Village settlement The village had a population of 1300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zhang 张, Yang 杨, and Peng 彭. The Chen have approximately 1200 people, and belong to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈. The Chen have reached their 15th generation. The Chen are divided into five branches, which are the first branch, second branch, third branch, fourth branch and the fifth branch. The first branch has the most people, with more than 700 people. There is a Chen ancestral hall, which is now used as the opera house. There is a lineage genealogy (the same as the one in Kuokou 阔口). 3. Village temples 1) Jumingtang 聚明堂: Main god: Lubu xiangong 鲁部相公, Lubu furen 鲁部夫人. Secondary gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Pufa tianzun 普法天尊, Shangdiye 上帝爷, Wenye 温爷, Xuantan gong 玄 坛公, and Huangxuan yuanshuai 黄玄元帅. 2) Baofu xishê 保福西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 3) Heyitang 合一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Guandiye 关帝爷, and Xuantangong 玄坛公. 4) Juxinting 聚新亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽兰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/ 14 the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Kuangwang yuanshuai 匡王元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 of the Baofu xishê 保福西社 are taken on procession. The Chen 陈 organize this event: four hosts and four assistant host positions are rotated into each year according to age. Toufu 头福 rites are held on 2/ 2 and opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu xianggong 鲁部相公 is held with marionette plays. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with marionette plays. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with marionette plays. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Huang gong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. The god is invited from Mingshangong 名山宫 to the village to watch the operas. Four or five Daoist ritual masters conduct a jiao rite 做醮; 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held with two days of opera. 10/24: Lanpen 兰盆 rites are held and marionette plays of Mulian opera 目莲戏 are performed. Three in One Scripture masters 经师 conduct chaodu 超度 deliverance rites in groups of three. Beimo wushê (Beimo five shê ritual alliance) 北磨五社 The five shê ritual alliance of Beimo is located outside the West Gate 西门 of Putian 莆田 city, and relies on streams from Fenghuang mountain 凤凰 山 for its water supply and irrigation. This area was part of the Beimopu 北磨铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里. In the Qing, the villages of 北磨, Xiamo 下磨, Qianpu 前埔, Xidi 溪底 and Xiaxie 下斜 were already settled in this area. Currently the entire area has been transformed into streets of high-rise shops and apartment buildings, but the original temple ritual system has been remarkably well preserved. This system was originally divided up on the basis of settlements and lineages into five shê ritual associations. The Feiyungong 飞云宫 temple, located in Beimo 北磨, was the originally the main temple of the five shê alliance. It is said that formerly on irregular occasions, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of this temple would be taken on a procession to the five shê, but this collective procession has not yet been revived. 
V318 Beimo 北磨 1. Village settlement The population of Beimo was approximately 500 people, living in 90 households. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. The Li are divided into the Baitang 白塘 Li and the Anxi 安溪 Li, each with their different ancestors. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Zhuang 庄, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Fu 傅, Xie 谢 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Yujian Shuangxingshê 玉涧双兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lisan furen 李三夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Lixiangong 李仙公, Zhoufu daren 周府大人 and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 2) Feiyungong 飞云宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Kangfu daren 康府大人 and Baifu daren白府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions During the first lunar month, on a day determined by divination, usually on 1/14, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Kangfu daren 康府大人 are carried out on a procession within the village. In the evening there is fire-walking 踏火堆 using palm sedan chairs 棕轿. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A070 Beimo five shê ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Formerly, they had sprit mediums. Now there are village elders 乡老 in this village who organize ritual events. The shêlu 社炉 (keepers of the incense burners of the she-altar) system is being revived. 
V319 Daxi 大溪 1. Village settlement Daxi was originally called Xidi 溪底, and is commonly known as Daluwei 大路尾. The village population was approximately 300 people. 2. Surname Groups The five main surnames are the Guo 郭, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Hu 胡. The Guo is the dominant surname group. The Guo have already been officially recognized as members of the Hui (Muslim) minority. They once had a lineage hall and a lineage genealogy, but both were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxingshê 福新社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/10 the incense burners of the Fuxingshê 福新 社香炉 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Way). Opera is performed, and ritual masters conduct rites. The village organizes this event as a whole, and funds are raised in a per capita form. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: the celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/18: the celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/23: the celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera and Daoist rites; 7/28: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. Funding for all these events is raised on a per capita basis, and the events are organized by the village as a whole. 
V320 Xiamo 下磨 1. Village settlement The population of Xiamo was over 600 people. Xiaomo was divided into seven different settlement clusters: Jiaoxia 郊下, Shangcuo 上厝, Wengcuo 翁厝, Wucuo 吴厝, Chencuo 陈厝, Xiacuo 下厝 and Huangwei 黄尾. The village preserves a stone inscription composed in Chongzhen 3 (1630) entitled 谕祭潘应龙碑 (Stele on the Imperially ordered sacrifices to Pan Yinglong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:202, No. 177). 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. Other surnames include the Gu 顾, Wu 吴, Zhang 张, Weng 翁, Su 苏, Liu 刘, Lin 林, Li 李 and the Guo 郭. The Huang are most numerous in Jiaoxia 郊下. They moved here from Houtang in Putian city 城里后塘 and are related to the Huang of Qianpu 前埔黄. There was originally a Wu ancestral hall in the village, but it was torn down in 1998, and has not been rebuilt. The ancestral tombs of the Wu were repaired in the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850) . 3. Village temples 1) Guoxianshê 国贤社 was renovated in Guangxu 4 (1878) and rebuilt in 2006. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Li sanfuren 李三夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Wanyundian 万云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods include Jin zhongjun 金中军, Daye 大哥, Erye 二哥, Siye 四爷 and the Baban 八班. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Guoxianshê 国贤 社 are taken on a procession around the village. Kongfu daren 孔府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Li sanfuren 李三夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 all join the procession. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Formerly this god would descend to possess spirit mediums. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V321 Qianpu 前埔 1. Village settlement Qianpu village had a population of over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄and the Shen 沈 are the major surnames. There are also minor surnames, including the Lin 林, Chen 陈, Xu 徐, Wu 吴 and Zheng 郑. The Shen originally had an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy, both of which were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. Nowadays the role of xianglao 乡老 (village elder) is filled by the eldest of the middle-aged men of the village. 3. Village temples 1) Qianpujing yinglinggong 前埔境应灵宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅. Secondary gods include Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Qianpujing Fuxingshê 前埔境福兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lisan furen 李三夫人 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Xuanxiao processions On 1/9, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Li sanfuren 李三夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 are carried in a procession through the village. At night palm sedan chairs of the gods are raced across bonfires while Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3.23: the celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/28: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 8/9: the celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held with opera and Daoist rites. Formerly, Huanggong yuanshuai would descend to possess a spirit medium, but it has been many years since that happened. 
V322 Xiaxie 下斜 1. Village settlement The population of Xiaxe is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Longxingshê 隆兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Songfenggong 松峰宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/12–14 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is carried to each household to xingdao (carry out the Dao). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/27: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
A071 Anfu ershi (Anfu two shê ritual alliance) 安福二社 
V323 Anfu 安福) 1. Village settlement The two shê ritual alliance of Anfu is located outside the West Gate 西门 of Putian 莆田 city, which formerly had a high city wall. The two-fold shê of Anfu is located at the Ximendou 西门兜. This area was part of the Wushipu 乌石铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiangli subcanton 东厢里. In the Qing this area already was settled and had streets and a market. The population of Anfu is approximately 900 people, and they are managed by the Anren Residential Committee 安福居委会. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of original settlement into two shê ritual associations. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wen 温, Yang 杨, and Ou 欧, Other surnames include the Yu 俞, Wu 吴, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Yaomingmiao 耀明庙 was built during the Southern Song. The temple was renovated both during the early Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The temple was within the Xilaifeng menzhen 西来凤门镇 of Putian city 莆田城. The main gods are Wuhuang dadi 五皇 大帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Jiang daren 江大人, and Song daren 宋大人. This temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 33 (1907) entitled 耀明庙建奉香灯斋粮碑记 序引 (Preface and stone inscription on the establishment of a fund (in grain) to pay for incense and lamps used in Fasts (rituals) at the Temple of Shining Radiance) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:358, No. 322). 2) Xingjishê 兴济社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include 关圣帝君. 3) Wufushê 五福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Nanchengong 南宸宫: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Daye 大爷. 5) Baoshuan 宝树庵 was originally built in the Ming Chongzhen period (1611–1644) by Lin Mingji 林铭几. In the Qing dynasty, Peng Peng 彭鹏 studied here, his son Peng Shengtan 彭圣坛 rebuilt this temple in the Kangxi period. In 1915, the temple was rebuilt again, and this was recorded by Jiang Chunlin 江春霖. (PTZJZCG, 1992:200). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Xingjishê 兴济社 and Wufushê 五福社 are taken on a procession around the village, practice the Dao to every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Anfu two shê ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 3/1: The birthday celebration of Jiang daren 江大人. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 9/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/21: The birthday celebration of Song daren 宋大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A072 Longqiao qijing (Longqiao sevenfold ritual alliance) 龙桥七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Longqiao is located within the Shihuabei irrigation system along the southwest side of the upper reaches of the Yanshou river 延寿溪 leading up to and including the Shihuabei Weir 使华陂. Water is diverted from the stream at this point south of Shihua weir to the villages of Longqiaopu 龙桥铺 in Dongxiangli 东厢里 sub-canton and Shanglin 上林 village in Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. Water is diverted north of the Shihua Weir to irrigate the lands of the following villages of Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton: Xiazheng 下郑 and Yangxi 洋西 and the villages of Xialiu 下刘, Baidu 白杜, Xiawei 下尾, Qixi 企溪, and Dantou 淡头 of Zunxianli 尊贤里 sub-canton. This area was part of the Longqiaopu 龙桥铺 (police/defense unit) of the Dongxiang sub-canton 东厢里. In the Qing, the following villages were settled in this region: Shang, Xiaqiaotou 上下桥头, Xishan 西山 and Laoyeshu 老叶树. Now this area has been transformed into apartment blocks and vacation villas. Entire villages have been torn down, and entire communities have been resettled into cheap apartment buildings, completely ending village life. Some vestiges remain in the temples and rituals that preserve a memory of the earlier communal spaces and relations. Thus most of the temples from this region have been preserved or moved up onto the mountain side overlooking the Sihuabei Weir where they are arrayed in a row of nine or ten brand new temples. In the local temple ritual system, these temples are arranged into seven autonomous ritual territories 七境. The Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 temple, located in Xiagongli 下宫里 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Wangmu niangniang Longqiao sevenfold ritual alliance 王母娘娘. Each year on lunar 1/20 the gods of Zhaolinggong are taken on a procession to the temples of the sevenfold alliance. These events are organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of each of the seven ritual territories. 
V324 Longqiaojie 龙桥街 1. Village settlement Longqiaojie is also known as Xialongqiao 下龙桥. The population of Longqiaojie is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zhu 朱 and the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples 1) Gushanggong 古上宫 contains the altar of the Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Dashengmu 大圣庙: owned Xishan 西山 and Shiding 石顶. The main god is Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Sandianxia 三殿下, Zhou daren 周大人, Xu daren 徐大人, Xiangong 仙公 and Dage 大哥. 3) Xingfushê 兴福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Huayansi Buddhist temple 华严寺: (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Gushanggong 古上宫 and Xingfushê 兴福社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on a procession around the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. The celebration of the day of ascension of Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Xiangong 仙公. 12/15: The birthday celebration of Dage 大哥. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/9: 
V325 Dinglongqiao 顶龙桥 1. Village settlement The population of Dinglongqiao is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Zhulongmiao 珠龙庙 contains the altar of the Xingfu nanshê 兴福南社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Huanxian Buddhist nunnery 欢喜庵 was rebuilt in 1930 (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) . 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Zhulongmiao 珠龙庙 and Xingfu nanshê 兴福南社 are taken on a procession around the village, to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on a procession around the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaoling gong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V326 Xiagongli 下宫里 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 was originally built in the year 998. The temple was recently rebuilt. The main gods are Sansheng zhenjun 三圣真君 and Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘. 2) Dazhongjing Xingfu beishê 大中境兴福北社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Longhuage 龙华阁: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Xingfu beishê 兴福北社 are taken on a procession around the village, to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 go on a procession around the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is organized by Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 as a whole. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/29: The birthday celebration of Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君 is organized by Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V327 Tudihou 土地后 1. Village settlement Tudihou is also called Tushê 土社. The village population of Tushê is over 500. 2. Surname Groups There is no main surname group. The following surnames live in the village: Huang 黄, Li 李, Zhu 朱 and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Tushê shangjing xingfu beishê 土社上境兴福北社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关 圣帝君, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. 3) Dingyansi Buddhist temple 顶岩寺 (PTZJZCG, 199:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 the gods of the Xingfu beishê 兴福北社 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao), and then they taken on a procession around the village. Daoist ritual masters carry out rites in the temple. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is celebrated, and the gods of the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 temple go on procession around the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are conducted. This procession is organized by the Zhaolinggong and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V328 Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The population of Xishan is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. There is a Zhu lineage ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Zhujing Xingfubeishê 朱境兴福北社 was rebuilt in Xianfeng 8 (1858). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 . Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Xingfu beishê 兴福北社 are taken on a procession around the village, practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: The birthday celebration of Zhou daren 周大人 of Dashengmiao 大圣庙. 5/4: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 of Dashengmiao. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 12/7: The birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人. 12/8: The birthday celebration of Sandianxia 三殿下 of Dashengmiao 大圣庙. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V329 Shiding 石顶 1. Village settlement The population of Shiding is approximately 437 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 branched off from the Xingfu beishê 兴福北社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Jiaxingshê 嘉兴社 are taken on a procession around the village, to xingdao (practice the Dao) in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. These events are organized by Zhaolinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Lanterns go on procession within the village. On all these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 10/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V330 Laoyeshu 老叶树 1. Village settlement The population of Laoyeshu is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Xingfu xishê 兴福西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Lishan laomufu 梨山老母府: The main god is Lishan laomu 梨山老母. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. 3) Feiquansi Buddhist temple 飞泉寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of Xingfu xishê 兴福 西社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/20 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Xiagongli 下宫里 go on a procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhaoling gong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Lishan laomu 梨山老母. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A073 Gufeng qijing (Gufeng sevenfold ritual alliance) 古峰七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Gufeng is located within the Shihuabei 使华 陂irrigation system along the Yanshou river up to and including the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂. From this point three major irrigation channels provide water to several sub-cantons to the north of Putian city. This area was part of the Shanglin Xiliupu 上林西刘铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili subcanton 孝义里 and the Yanshou Yangxipu 延寿洋西铺 of the Changtaili sub-canton 常泰里. In the Ming dynasty, the villages of Xiapu 下埔 and Yanshou 延寿 were already settled. In the Qing, the villages of Shanlin 上林 and Xiliu 西刘 separated off, and in the late Qing the villages of Gaojing 高井, Ouxuwei 欧徐尾 and Makeng 马坑 divided off and were settled. The local temple ritual system is divided up on the basis of the independent villages into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The Gufeng Fuyingmiao 古峰孚应庙 temple, located in Xitou 西头 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Wugong shenghong 吴公圣侯 (Wu Xing 吴兴, founder of the Yanshou Weir) and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the villages of the alliance takes turns to go in procession to the Fuyingmiao to present incense or invite the gods back to their villages 进香或请神. Historically, the Xu lineage of the village of Yanshou 延寿徐氏 was renowned as a prominent lineage with many examination graduates. Already in the Northern Song, in Xining 9 (1076), a Zhuangyuan 状元牌坊 (first place) memorial archway was set up in Yanshou village 延寿村 in honor of Xu Duo 徐铎. 
V331 Yanshou 延寿 1. Village settlement Yanshou village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population of Yanshou has a population of approximately 1200 people. Several inscriptions commemorate the Xu Ancestral hall of this village. These are the Zhizheng 6 (1346) 重修景祥徐氏祠记 (Record 
A073 Gufeng qijing sevenfold ritual alliance of the Repairs to the Jingxiang Xu Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:71, No. 64), the Yongzheng 9 (1731) 重建景祥徐氏祠堂记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Xu lineage Ancestral hall at Jingxiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:226, No. 196), and the Qianlong 26 (1761) 重建景祥徐 氏祠堂记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Jingxiang Xu Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:240, No. 207). 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Yang 杨. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Xie 谢, Gu 顾. There were four prominent families 望族 living here and one Jingbiao paifang 旌表牌坊 was awarded to the village in the Song Dynasty. 3. Village temples 1) Yanshoujing Jianfushê 延寿境建福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Liguige 黎闺阁: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, and Baxian 八仙. 3) Shouxiting 绶溪亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 claims 23 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, three surname groups including the Lin 林, Gu 顾 and the Xie 谢 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/11 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 1/13 the Huang 黄 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/14 the Ye 叶 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/15 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 go on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/18 the Yang 杨 take the gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 on a procession around their part of the village to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Lanfu daren 蓝府大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V332 Ouxuwei 欧徐尾 1. Village settlement Ouxuwei village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population of Ouxuwei is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Jianfushê 建福社 (actually located in Yanshou 延寿): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhanggonggong 张公宫: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong 二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Jianfushê 建福 社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 of Yanshou 延寿 village are carried in a procession around Ouxuwei village to practice the Dao 行道 in every Huang household. On 1/15 the villagers participate in the common Yuanxiao 总元宵 of Yanshou 延寿 village. The gods of Jianfushê 建福社 and Liguige 黎闺阁 go on a procession through the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V333 Xiapo 下坡 1. Village settlement Xiapo was originally called Xiapu 下埔. Xiapu village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population of the village is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Xiapojing Longxingshê 霞坡境隆兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baifu daren白府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Longxingshê 隆兴社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/13 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Baifu daren 白府大人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V334 Xitou 西头 1. Village settlement Xitou was originally called Xiliu 西刘. Xiliu village is a part of Yanshou Administrative Village 延寿行政村. The population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zeng 曾 and the Wu 吴. There was one prominent family 望族 in the village in the Song Dynasty. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangyunmiao 祥云庙 contains the altar of the Xinglong ershê 兴隆二社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya dajiang 白牙大将. 2) Fuyingmiao 孚应庙: The main gods are Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯 and Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文 昌帝君. 3) Chengbenci 承本祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 38 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Fuyingmiao 孚应 庙, Xiangyunmiao 祥云庙 and Xinglong ershê 兴隆二社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/5: The birthday celebration of Puji yiyonghou 普济义勇侯 is organized by the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On most of these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village or a specific temple and its community organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V335 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement Shanglin village is a part of Changlin Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The population is approximately 1800 people, within which there are more than 200 Christians. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑 and the Yu 余. 3. Village temples 1) Wanrong zushê 万榕祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Ciyunmiao 慈云庙: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ziyun zumiao 紫云祖庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4) Yufengting 御风亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Zongshengci 宗圣祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 claims that there are 22 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Wanrong zushê 万榕祖社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/12 a procession is organized to offer incense 进香 to the Fuyingmiao 孚应庙 of Gufeng 古峰. This event is organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by Ciyunmiao 慈云庙 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Ciyun miao 慈云庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V336 Gaojing 高井 1. Village settlement Gaojing village is a part of Changlin Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Gaojing village was part of the black banner alliance in the banner alliances of the end of the Qing. 3. Village temples 1) Wanrong xinshê 万榕新社 branched off from the Wanrong zushe万榕祖社 of Shanglin 上林. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Gaofenggong 高峰宫 was rebuilt recently. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Wanrong xinshê 万榕新社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A074 Beimen qijing (Beimen sevenfold ritual alliance) 北门七境 The Beimen (North Gate of Putian walled city) is also known as the Gongchenmen Gate 拱辰门, and so this area is commonly referred to as Chenmen 辰 门. The North Gate sevenfold ritual alliance is divided into an Inner sevenfold alliance 内七境 and an Outer sevenfold alliance 外七境. The Longpo zushê 龙坡祖社 temple, located in Yinglong street 英龙街, is the main temple of the Inner and Outer sevenfold alliances. For many years the temple was used as a grain storage facility, but in recent years it has been restored. The main gods are Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 
A074 Beimen qijing sevenfold ritual alliance Beimen inner sevenfold ritual alliance 北门内七境 The inner sevenfold ritual alliance of Beimen 北门内七境 included Chenxiangli 陈巷里, Wumenli 乌门里, Tangxiangli 唐衖里, Yudaili 鱼袋里 and Xiuyilong Street 绣衣衖. This area was part of the Longpopu (police/defense unit) 龙坡铺 of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里. Xiyugong 喜雨宫 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance, and the main gods of the temple are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong yuanshuai 萧公元帅 as well as Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. Currently, the main ritual activity of the inner sevenfold ritual alliance is the birthday celebration of Zhanggong on 7/ 23, during which the local inhabitants give contributions to fund opera performance. The Yuanxiao festival rotates processions among the different surname groups are as follows: the Song surname group 宋 on 1/13; the Lin surname group 林 on 1/14; the Fang surname group 方 on 1/15; the Zheng surname group 郑 on 1/16; and mixed surname group 杂姓 on 1/18. 1/23 is the common Yuanxiao 总元宵. Opera is performed for three days and different surname groups take turns to be in charge. The Ruidian zumiao 瑞云祖庙 located in Touting 头亭 was the main temple of the Outer sevenfold alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year with an intercalary fourth or eighth month, Tiangong yuanshuai would be carried in a procession around the sevenfold alliance. This event was organized by the temple committee of the Ruiyun zumiao. A stone inscription composed in Qianlong 27 (1762) entitled 瑞云庙志德碑 (Stele testifying to the virtues of the Temple of Auspicious Clouds) is about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:241, No. 208). Historically, the Chen lineage of Yimen 义门陈 were a prominent lineage with successful examination candidates. In the Ming, they produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). Beimen outer sevenfold ritual alliance 北门外七境 The outer sevenfold ritual alliance of Beimen includes Chenmen 辰门 (Gegou 隔沟), Douting 头亭 (Dajie 大街), Tiancuo 田厝, Gouxia 沟下, and Tantouqiao 潭头桥, which were all originally part of Gongchenpu (police/ defense unit) of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里, as well as Yimen 义门, Xigeng 西庚, and Xiadai 下戴, which were originally part of Yigengdaipu 义庚戴铺 of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. This North gate is the starting point of the courier road going north from the city of Putian 莆田, and there are pavilions for welcoming officials, such as the head pavilion (Touting 头亭) and the secondary pavilion (Erting 二亭), along the road. Yimen 义门 village originally had the Junlitan 郡厉坛 (Provincial altar for the unrequited dead) and the procession of the City God of Putian 城隍 would visit there every year. In Daoguang 27 (1847) Chen Chiyang 陈池养 composed the 重修郡厉坛记 (Record of the restoration of the Xinghua Commandery altar to the souls of the unrequited dead (dedicated to those who died a violent death, usually in service to the State) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:311, No. 276). 
V337 Gegou 隔沟 1. Village settlement Gegou village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村, Gegou is divided into two neighborhoods: Gegou 隔沟 and Chenmen 辰门. The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xia 夏. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Beiguan wangfu 北关王府: The main gods are Jin daren 金大人, Kong daren 孔大人, and Yu daren 玉大人. Secondary gods include Chen boye 陈伯爷, Lin boye 林伯爷, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Bai jiangjun 白将军, Hong jiangjun 红将军, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Diyian Buddhist nunnery 第一庵 was rebuilt in 1920 (PTZJZCG, 1992:199). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Gegou 隔沟 invites the gods of the Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社 to go on procession within its neighborhood, and to practice the Dao in every household. On 1/17 Chenmen 辰门 invites all the gods of the Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社 to go on procession within its neighborhood and practice the Dao in every household. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire neighborhood organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (Mazu 妈祖). 5/24: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Marionette plays are performed, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, with the exception of the birthday of Fuden zhengshen, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the temple, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V338 Chenmendou 辰门兜 1. Village settlement Chenmendou village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. Chenmendou is divided into four neighborhoods: Dajie 大街, Touting 头亭, Qiancuo 前厝, Tiancuo 田厝. The total population is approximately 1300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张, the Huang 黄, the Xu 徐, and the Lin 林. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo dongyishê 龙坡东义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司 马圣王, and Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王. Secondary gods include Taibao laoye 太保老爷 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 was built during the early Qing Dynasty. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, and Zhong junye 中军爷. This temple is considered the founding temple of the cult of Tiangong yuanshuai in Putian and Xianyou, and many temples from these two counties come to present incense 进香 during Yuanxiao or on the god’s birthday. 3) Beiguan wudimiao 北关五帝庙 was rebuilt during the late Qing Dynasty. The main god is Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Tiandijun qinshi 天地君亲师. 4) Yingxiangting 迎祥亭: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Wang xiansheng 王先生. 5) Tandu’an 坛渡庵: The main god is Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. 6) Zhanqueting Buddhist pagoda 瞻阙亭 is located in Touting 头亭. This temple was built in the early Ming and restored in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:199). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Longpo jianyishê 龙坡建义社 are taken on a procession within the neighborhood to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire four neighborhood alliance organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Dajie 大街 and Touting 头亭. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions among believers everywhere. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Dajie 大街 Qiancuo 前厝 and Tiancuo 田厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The entire four neighborhood alliance organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed. These events are organized by Touting 头亭, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions among worshippers of the god from near and far and from per capita funds collected from local residents. On this day, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 goes on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On these occasions, opera is performed (unless otherwise specified) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
V339 Gouxia 沟下 1. Village settlement Gouxia village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Cai 蔡, Huang 黄, Lin 林, Weng 翁, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后 土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Zhaoxian shengwang 昭显圣王 and Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 2) Zhonglinci 忠霖祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longpo nanyishê 龙坡南义社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. The village as a whole organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V340 Yimen 义门 1. Village settlement Yimen village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The entire village has a population of approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Wang 王, Li 李, and Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. During the Ming Dynasty, there were one Jinshi 进士 and six Juren 举人. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo yishê 龙坡义社 is within the Taishimiao 太师庙: The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Magong taishi 马公太师, Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhang boye 张伯爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, Meng jiangjun 孟将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Jiao jiangjun 焦将军, and Yue jiangjun 岳将军. 2) Guanyinge 观音阁 (Junlitan 郡厉坛): The main god is Guanyin 观音. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Longpo yishê 龙坡 义社 are taken on a procession around the village and practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated and opera is performed. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/2: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Universal Deliverance Rituals 普度仪式: 7/15: 中元普度 Middle prime Universal Deliverance rites are performed at the Junlitan 郡厉坛. Opera is performed. 10/1: 下元普度 Lower prime Universal Deliverance rites are performed at the Junlitan 郡厉坛. Opera is performed. 
V341 Xigeng 西庚 1. Village settlement Xigeng is also know as Xigeng 西耕. The population is over 1000 people. Xigeng village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village (拱辰行政村). Xigeng is divided into three neighborhoods: Xishang 西上, Xizhong 西中, Xixia 西下. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zhang 张. Other surnames include the Dong 董, Li 李, Chen 陈, and Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo xijing Xiandengshê 龙坡西境贤登社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Longpo xijing Hemeishê 龙坡西境和美社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and Yangshi shengfei 杨氏圣妃. 3) Longpo xijing Yiningshê 龙坡西境义宁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sansheng zhenjun 三圣 真君. Secondary gods include Huanggong dashi 黄公大使, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. 4) Xixinggong 西行宫: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Mayuanshuai 马元帅, and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 5) Weilinggong 威灵宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wang daren 王大人. 6) Baimagong 白马宫: The main god is Wen daren 温大人. Secondary gods include Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Xu jiangjun 徐将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, a common Yuanxiao procession is held. The gods of all the temples go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13 the gods of Hemeishê 和美社 go on procession within the Xixia 西下 neighborhood. On 1/15 the gods of Yiningshê 义宁社 go on procession within the Xishang 西上 neighborhood. On 1/16 the gods of Xiandengshê 贤登社 go on procession within the Xizhong 西中 neighborhood. In each case, these events are organized by the neighborhood itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/29: The birthday celebration of Wen daren 温大人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yiningshê 义宁社 is organized by the Xishang 西 上 neighborhood. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xiandengshê 贤登社 is organized by the Xizhong 西中 neighborhood. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. 11/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Hemeishê 和美社 is organized by the Xixia 西下 neighborhood. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis either in the sponsoring neighborhood, or throughout the village. 
V342 Xiadai 下戴 1. Village settlement Xiadai village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Lin 林, Huang 黄, Peng 彭, Tang 唐, and Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo dongshê 龙坡东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙 将军. 2) Xiadaisi Buddhist temple 下戴寺 was rebuilt before 1949 by Buddist monk Yongjing 永静 (PTZJZCG, 1992:199). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Longpo dongshê 龙坡东社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. On 2/1 Toufu 头 福 rites are held. There are races across bonfires 踏火堆 while carrying the palm sedan chairs 棕轿 of the gods. On these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/23: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 8/2: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V343 Tantouqiao 潭头桥 1. Village settlement Tantouqiao village is a part of Gongchen Administrative Village 拱辰行政村. The population is approximately 150 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Ye 叶 and the Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longpo tongyishê 龙坡通义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Huye 虎爷, and Zhong jun 中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Tongyishê 通义社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 rites are held with Daoist ritual. The fushou 福首 take the incense burner of the shê altar 社炉 on procession within the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/13: The birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/2: The birthday of Taiwei yuanshuai 太尉元帅. 12/2: The birthday of Chen Zhongjun 陈中军. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A075 Dongmen qijing (Dongmen sevenfold ritual alliance) 东门七境 The Dongmen (East Gate) of the city of Putian 莆田 is also known as Qingmen 青门. The sevenfold ritual alliance of Dongmen is located outside the Dongmen (East Gate) qijing sevenfold ritual alliance East Gate of the walled city. Dongmen includes areas which were originally part of the Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里: Dongmenwai 东门外, Sifangjie 四房街, Liantang 莲塘 of the Qingmenpu 青门铺, Meihuating 梅花亭 and Xishê 西社 of the Ningyipu 宁义铺, Fangwei 枋尾 of the Fengmeipu 丰美 铺, as well as Xiadun下墩 and Tianzhuang 田庄 of the Xiadunpu 下墩铺. Nowadays, the villages in this area have been torn down to make way for new apartment blocks and shopping streets. Nonetheless, the original temples of the area have been preserved or moved to new locations and rebuilt. The local temple ritual system is still divided up according to the original sevenfold ritual alliance. The main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Dongmen is the Qingmengong 青门宫 temple, also known as Dongguan taishimiao 东关太 师庙, reputed to be the most efficacious temple in the city of Putian 莆城第 一显赫庙宇. Every year, during the first half of the 10th lunar month, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, the main god of Qingmengong 青门宫, is carried in a procession to the temples of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Historically, in this area the Chen 陈 lineage of Dongmenwai was a prominent lineage known for its successful examination candidates. In the Ming they produced one Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduate) and six Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). 
V344 Dongmendou 东门兜 1. Village settlement Dongmendou village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. Dongmendou is divided into two neighborhoods: Dongmenwai 东门外 and Sifangjie 四房街. Both neighborhoods have a total population of approximately 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Zheng 郑, Weng 翁, Xiao 肖, and Xu 徐. In this village, there were one Jinshi 进士, six Juren 举人 and one Jingbiao paifang 旌表牌坊 awarded during the Ming Dynasty. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangheshê 祥和社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Qingmengong 青门宫 (Dongguan taishimiao 东关太师庙): The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Yangmen bajiang 杨门八将, and Zhongjun 中军. 3) Hulanci 壶兰祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18, the incense burner of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 are carried in a procession within the village. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Marionette opera is performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V345 Meihuating 梅花亭 1. Village settlement Meihuating village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. Meihuating is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangjie 上街 and Xiajie 下街. The total population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Xu 许 and the Guo 郭. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Baoning dongshê 保宁东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣候, and Wenwu liesheng文武列圣. 2) Yangzhici 仰止祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Xufu daren 徐府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 3) Puzhaosi 普照寺: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 Shangjie 上街 and Xiajie 下街 take turns in inviting the gods of Baoning dongshê 保宁东社 to go on procession within their neighborhoods, and to practice the Dao in every household. Opera is performed at the same time. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a Jiao ritual on 1/17. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On these occasions, the entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Marionette plays are performed, as well as Daoist rites. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 9/19: The birthday celebration of the of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette plays are performed. On all these occasions, the village organizes the ritual event as a whole and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V346 Fengmei 丰美 1. Village settlement Fengmei village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. The population of Fengmei is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Qi 祁. Other surnames include the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu zushê 集福祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Ta’an 塔庵: The main god is Daxiong 大兄. 3) Hongrenci 弘仁祠: The main gods are Li daye 李大爷, Huang daye 黄大 爷 and Xie daye 谢大爷. 4) Baihuatang 百华堂: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. 5) Cuiting Buddhist pagoda 崔亭 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Lin surname group 林 invites the gods of the Jifu zushê 集福祖社 to go on procession to every household of its surname. These events are organized by the Lin surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis amongst the Lin. On 1/17 the Qi surname group 祁 invites the gods of the Jifu zushê 集福祖社 to go on procession to every household of its surname. These events are organized by the Qi surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis amongst the Qi. On 2/4 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2/22: The birthday celebration of Hongrenci San daye 弘仁祠三大爷. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/4: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/24: The birthday celebration of Hongrenci San daye 弘仁祠三大爷. On each of these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V347 Xishê 西社 1. Village settlement Xishê village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 镇海行政村. The population of Xishê is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Yihai xishê 义海西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Hunyuandian 混元殿 was built in Guangxu 17 (1891) and rebuilt in 1925 and 1965. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liufu daren 刘府大人, and Badajiang 八大将. 3) Fulongan 福隆庵 was built during the Yongzheng period (1723–1735). It is claimed that this temple branched off from the Southern Shaolin Monastery 南少林寺下院. The main god is Rulaifo 如来佛. 4) Qilongan 祗隆庵 was built in 1915 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14 the incense burners of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 are taken on a procession around every household. On the same day, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V348 Liantang 莲塘 1. Village settlement Liangtang village is a part of Zhenhai Administrative Village 莲塘行政村. Liantang is divided into two neighborhoods: Liantang 莲塘 and Doumentou 陡门头. The total population is 222 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Ye 叶, Xu 许, Song 宋, and Ke 柯. There is no main surname group. There is a Paifang 牌坊 from the Ming Dynasty. 3. Village Temples 1) Dongguan wudimiao 东关五帝庙 was rebuilt in Jiaqing 22 (1817). The main god are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 2) Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社, Tianxianfu 天仙府: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Li tianwang 李天王, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, and Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Xu daren 徐大人 and Da wangye 大王爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Liantang neighborhood 莲塘 take the incense burners of the gods of the Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 on a procession around every household, and a lantern procession is held at night. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. These events are organized by each neighborhood, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/18 Doumentou 陡门头 neighborhood invites the incense burners of the gods of Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 to go on procession to every household. A lantern procession is held at night. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. These events are organized by the neighborhood, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/24 the two neighborhoods together carry the incenser burners of the gods of Jiyi xingshê 集义兴社 on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village organizes these ritual-events and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V349 Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement Xiadun village is a part of Kuokou Administrative Village 阔口行政村. Xiadun is divided into two neighborhoods: Xiadun 下墩 and Tianzhuang 田庄. The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Cai 蔡 and the Ye 叶. 3. Village temples 1) Baofu zushê 保福祖社 was originally built in Ming Zhengde 12 (1517) and was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 3 (1799) and again in 1994. The temple belongs to the Ye lineage. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯, and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 2) Baofu shangshê 保福上社 was built in Qianlong 6 (1741). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. This temple belongs to the Cai 蔡 lineage. 3) Zifenggong 紫峰宫 is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Guanping 关平, Zhoucang 周仓 and Wengong yuanshuai 温 公元帅. 4) Tongyingtang 通应堂 formerly belonged to a twelve family alliance. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods are Weituo 韦驮 and Jalan 伽蓝. 5) Feiyundian 飞云殿: The main god is Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Secondary gods include Pengfu daren 彭府大人, Lifu daren 李府大人, and Daxiong 大兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Ye 叶 invites the gods of Baofu shangshê 保福上社 to go on procession to every household of its surname within the village. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by the Ye, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/12 the Cai 蔡 invites the gods of Baofu shangshê 保福上社 to go on procession to every household of its surname within the village. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by the Cai, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On both occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/4: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by the village. 5/25: The birthday celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by the village. 6/19 and 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with marionette opera. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofu zushê 保福祖社 is organized by the Cai 蔡. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Jiucha shenghou 纠察圣侯 is organized by the village. 10/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofu shangshê 保福上社 is organized by the Ye 叶. 11/3: The birthday celebration of Pengfu daren 彭府大人 is organized by the Ye 叶. 11/4: The birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人 is organized by the Ye 叶. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The village or the surname group organizes the event and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A076 Baihu qijing (Baihu Sevenfold ritual alliance) 白湖七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Baihu is located in the Mulan 木兰 irrigation system of the northern irrigated plain, and includes Kuokou 阔口 and Gushan 古山 villages. The area was part of the Yuhu Jinfupu 玉湖进福铺 (police/defense unit) of Dongxiangli sub-canton 东厢里 and the Longjin gushanpu 龙津古山铺 of the Hugongli sub-canton 胡公里. This area had the village of Baihushi 白湖市 in the Song, and the market streets of Kuokou 阔口街 in the Ming. In the late Song and early to mid-Ming, Kuokou village was near the site of the closest harbor for boats coming up the mouth of the Mulan river 木兰溪 to deliver goods to Putian city. In the Qing, due to a change in the course of the Mulan river, the two villages of Kuokou and Gushan were divided up, the former in the northern irrigated plain, and the latter now part of the southern irrigated plain. The local temple ritual system is divided into seven ritual territories. Baihu qijing sevenfold ritual alliance In the past five years, these villages have been torn down to make way for new highways around Putian 莆田 city, sometimes without adequate compensation to the villagers. The temples have been moved into a suburb on the outskirts of the expanding city of Putian, surrounded on all sides by rows of apartment buildings. There are now six newly built temples standing in a row. These village temples are often the last building left standing when villages are razed, as negotiations continue to the last minute regarding the compensation for the temple and the new site of the moved temple. The main temple is the Feilaige 飞来阁 temple, originally located in Kuokou 阔口 village. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the gods of the Feilaige are carried in a procession to the temples of the sevenfold alliance. This area was the home in the Southern Song of the Grand Councilor 丞相 Chen Junqing 陈俊卿 and Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Currently, a Chen lineage genealogy 陈氏族谱 has been preserved, along with a Yuhu zuci 玉湖祖 祠 ancestral hall and a Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙. In the Southern Song in Shaoxing 8 (1138) a Yakui (Second place) 亚魁牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of Chen Junqing and a Zhuangyuan (First place) 状元 牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Chen Wenlong in the Southern Song Xianchun period (1265–1274). 
V350 Kuokou 阔口 1. Village settlement Kuokou village is a part of Kuokou Administrative Village 阔口行政村. Kuokou is divided into six neighborhoods: Yuqiao 玉桥, Qiaotou 桥头, Pubian 浦边, Houmen 后门, Kuowei 阔尾, and Qiaodong 桥东. The combined population of all these settlements is approximately 1800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈, with 1500 people. Other surnames include the Xu 徐, Fang 方, and Zheng 郑. There is a genealogy of the Chen surname group 陈氏族谱, a Chen lineage ancestral hall called the Yuhu zuci 玉湖祖祠 and a Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙. There was the market at Baihu 白湖市 already in the Song, and four prominent families 望族 from the village were noted in the Song Dynasty. This village is also the hometown of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 and Chen Zan 陈瓉, national heroes who led the resistance against the invasion of the Yuan Mongols 抗元英雄. 3. Village temples 1) Feilaige 飞来阁: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Kuoweishê 阔尾社, Sangongmiao 三公庙: The main gods are imperial court granted 敕封 Enzhu sangong 恩主三公 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Zhu daren 朱大人 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Qiaotou Xiningshê 桥头熙宁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Pubian Yuhu zushê 浦边玉湖祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5) Houmen yuhu shangshê 后门玉湖上社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6) Qiaodong jiuchamiao 桥东纠察庙: The main gods are Enzhu sangong 恩主三公, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Jiucha yuanshuai 纠察元帅 and Hei jiangjun 黑将军. 7) Yuqiao xinshê 玉桥新社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8) Yuhu shuyuan 玉湖书院: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 9) Weixiantan 威显坛: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 10) Damafu 大妈府: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 11) Yuhudong 玉湖洞: The main god is Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 12) Baihu Chongjimiao 白湖崇济庙: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 13) Qingyuantang Buddhist hall 清源堂 was built before 1949 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Yuqiao xinshê 玉 桥新社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/12 the gods of the Qiaotou Xiningshê 桥头熙宁社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/13 the gods of the Pubian Yuhu zushê 浦边玉湖祖社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/14 the gods of Houmen Yuhu shangshê 后门玉湖上社 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/15, the gods of Kuowei Sangongmiao 阔尾三公庙 go on procession and practice the Dao in every household within its territory. On 1/16 the gods of the Qiaodong Jiuchamiao 桥东纠察庙 go on procession within its territory. On 1/18, a joint Yuanxiao festival is held by the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. The gods of the Feilaige 飞来阁 go on procession both within the village and around the sevenfold ritual alliance of Gushan 古山. These events are organized by the Feilaige. On each of these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds for these events are raised on a per capita basis or a voluntary basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yuqiao xinshê 玉桥新社 is organized by the shê temple and its community. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. When the Mazu statue from the Wenfenggong 文峰宫 in Putian city goes on a pilgrimage to present incense 进香 to the Meizhou Zumiao 湄洲祖庙, the goddess rests for the night at the Feilaige 飞来阁. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Pubian 浦边. 7/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Qiaotou Xiningshê 桥头熙宁社 is organized by the shê. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the Yuhudong 玉湖洞. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Houmen Yuhu shangshê 后门玉湖上社 is organized by the shê. 8/2: The birthday celebration of Kuowei Enzhu sangong 阔尾恩主三公 is organized by the Sangongmiao 三公庙 temple. 9/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Qiaodong Jiuchamiao 桥东纠察庙 is organized by the shê as a whole. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Pubian Yuhu zushê 浦边玉湖祖社 is organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funding is raised on a per capita basis by the village or the temple and its community as a whole. 
V351 Gushan 古山 1. Village settlement Gushan village is a part of Xinxi Administrative Village 新溪行政村. The population of Gushan is approximately 1400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The Chen came from Yiban 驿坂 in Huian 惠安. Their ancestral tomb 始祖墓 is in front of the Guanghuasi 广化寺 in the former Huangcuoli 黄厝里 subcanton. 3. Village temples 1) Sanshan zujishê 三山祖迹社: The main god is Enzhu sangong 恩主三公. 2) Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙: also called Chen Wenlong jinianguan 陈文 龙纪念馆. The main god is Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Secondary gods include Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷, Huguo taifuren 护国太夫人 and Suijia dutong 随驾都统. 3) Jingxin shuyuan 镜心书院: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Dage 大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the gods of Sanshan zujishê 三山祖迹社 are taken on a procession around the village to practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. On 1/18 the gods of Feilaige 飞来阁 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by Feilaige, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/25: The birthday celebration of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is organized by Shangshu zumiao 尚书祖庙. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Enzhu sangong 恩主三公 of Sanshan zujishê 三山祖迹社. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Dage 大哥. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. 
A077 Lipu sishê (Lipu Four shê ritual alliance) 荔浦 四社 The four shê ritual alliance of Lipu is located on the northern banks of the Mulan river at the meeting point between the Mulanbei 木兰陂 irrigation system and the Yanshoubei 延寿陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Lupupu (police/defense unit) 芦浦铺 of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. In the Ming, the village of Lupu 芦浦村 was already settled, and in the late Qing, the village of Jiaoxi 郊西 separated off. Nowadays the villages of this area are managed by the Lipu Administrative Village 荔浦行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into the four shê (ritual associations) of Hougong 后龚, Qianpu 前浦. Sheqian 社前 and Jiaoxi 郊西四社, which are commonly referred to as the Lipu sigan 荔浦四干”. The Lingxing zushê 灵兴祖社 temple, located in Sheqian 社前 village, is the main temple of the four shê alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year on lunar 2/2 the Toufu “头福” rites are celebrated, and the Zunzhu mingwang 四社尊主明王 
A077 Lipu Four shê ritual alliance and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê go on a joint procession around the area. Historically, the Chen 陈 lineage of Lipu in this area were a prominent lineage with successful examination graduates. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460) the Fujian Provincial Administration Commissioner set up a Jinshi (Metropolitan Graduate) 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Chen lineage. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the four shê alliance of Lipu was part of the red banner alliance. 
V352 Hougong 后龚 1. Village settlement The population of Hougong is approximately 400. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Gong 龚. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiang qianjing Longxingshê 芦江前境隆兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 人. Secondary gods include Qian siniang 钱四娘 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神. The temple was rebuilt in the Qing Xianfeng 1 (1851). 2) Chaoyanggong 朝阳宫: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wulu shenghou 五路圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu dashi 柳大使, and Jin dashi 金大使. 3) Yujiang shuyuan 玉江书院: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the gods of Longxingshê 隆兴社 and Chaoyanggong 朝阳宫 go on procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê alliance fold go on procession together. These events are organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V353 Qianpu 前浦 1. Village settlement The population of Qianpu is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiangjing Yuefengshê 鲁江境月峰社 is linked to the Beijidian 北极殿: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wang lingguan 王灵官. 2) Babaomiao 八宝庙: The main god is Baima jiangjuan 白马将军爷 (Babaoye 八宝). Secondary gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Yuxiangci 玉香祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 52 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/8: The gods of Yuefengshê 月峰社 and Beijidian 北极殿 go on procession within the village, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four-shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 11/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These ritual-events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V354 Sheqian 社前 1. Village settlement The population of Sheqian is approximately 306 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Chen 陈, and Peng 彭. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiang zhongjing Lingxing zushê 芦江中境灵兴 祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 2) Baoxinggong 保兴宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ping’anci 平安祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Lingxing zushê 灵兴祖社 go on procession within the territory, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/10: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These ritual-events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V355 Jiaoxi 郊西 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Huang 黄 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Lujiangxijing Guangzhengshê 庐江西境广正社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Linshui furen 临水夫人 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Mingsanci 明三祠 was built during the late Qing. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Chen hufa 陈护法, and Yuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the gods of Guangzhengshê 广正社 go on procession within its territory, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four shê ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Mingsanci 明三祠. 2/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by Mingsanci 明三祠. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole at the shê temple, or by the Three in One initiates at their temple, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A078 Xinjiao sishê (Xinjiao four shê ritual alliance) 莘郊四社 Xinjiao was originally called Xingou 新沟 (New Canal), and is located north of the Mulan river where the Mulan and Yanshou 延寿 irrigation systems merge. This area was part of the Xingou Huangdunpu (police/defense unit) 新沟黄墩铺 of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. In the Ming, this area had the villages of Xingou 新沟 and Huangdun 黄墩. In the late Qing the region divided into the four villages of Huangdun 黄墩, Jiaodong 郊东, Heshê 何社 and Zhongshê 中社. The temple ritual network is divided by settlements into four shê ritual units. Currently these villages are managed by the Xinjiao Administrative Village 莘郊行政村 The Longxianmiao 龙显庙 temple, located in Jiaodong 郊东 village, is the main temple for the four shê ritual alliance. The main god worshipped in the temple is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Every three years, the gods of Longxianmiao are taken on a procession to each of the villages of the alliance, as well as to neighboring villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê alliance of Xinjiao was part of the black banner alliance of villages. 
V356 Huangdun 黄墩 1. Village settlement The population of Huangdun is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Qian 钱, Chen 陈, Zheng 郑 and Guo 郭. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 branched off from Heshê 何社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Zhongtian yuanshuai 中天元帅. 2) Mingdetang 明德堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xinjiao four shê ritual alliance Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 go on a procession within the village, and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/4 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 of Jiaodong 郊东 are invited go on a procession within Huangdun. During every year with an intercalary second month, on 2/ 2, the gods of the Longxianmiao 龙显庙 go on a procession around the entire four shê ritual alliance. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dadi 中天大帝. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 
V357 Jiaodong 郊东 1. Village settlement The population of Jiaodong is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Fu 傅, Hu 胡, and Yang 杨. 3. Village temples 1) Longtangshê 龙塘社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 2) Longxianmiao 龙显庙: The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Yang jiuniang 杨九娘 and Tie daren 铁大人. This is the main temple of the four shê alliance of Xinjiao. 3) Xutanggong 徐堂宫: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Zhang daren 张大人 and Zuoyou jiangjun 左右将军. 4) Longdeci 龙德祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 35 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of the Longtangshê 龙塘社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of the Longxianmiao 龙显庙 are invited to go on a procession to Jiaodong village. Every year with an intercalary second month, on 2/2, the gods of Longxianmiao 龙显 庙 go on a procession throughout the entire four shê ritual alliance. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. This event is organized by Jiaodong, Zhongshê 中社 and Heshê 何社 in rotation. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. 5/5 or 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by Jiaodong and Zhongshê 中社 in rotation. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V358 Zhongshê 中社 1. Village settlement The population of Zhongshê is approximately 675 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang zhongshê 龙塘中社 (the altar is located in the Longtangshê 龙塘社 of Jiaodong village 郊东): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingangong 兴安宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅, Ougong yuanshuai 欧公元帅, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 50 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Longtangshê 龙塘社 and Xingangong 兴安宫 go on procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. The gods of Longxian miao 龙显庙 are invited to go on a procession within Zhongshê 中社. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized in turns with Jiaodong 郊东 and Heshê 何社. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/5 and 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in turns with Jiaodong 郊东 and Heshê 何社. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V359 Heshê 何社 1. Village settlement The population of Heshê is approximately 975 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the He 何and the 朱. Other surnames include the Xiao 肖, Zheng 郑, and Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 branched off from Huangdun 黄墩 in Guangxu 17 (1891). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Lixiangci 荔香祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 30 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of Longtang shangshê 龙塘上社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/1, the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is invited to go on a procession within the territory. Every three years, on 2/1–5, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Longxianmiao 龙显庙 is invited to go on a procession. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized in turn with Jiaodong 郊东 and Zhongshê 中社. 7/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A079 Punan sicun (Punan four village ritual alliance) 浦南四村 The four village ritual alliance of Punan is located along the Southern Main Channel of the Yanshoubei irrigation system 延寿陂南大沟, and includes the site of the Lupu sluice-gate 芦浦斗门. This area was part of the Douqian yulinpu 陡前俞林铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延 兴里. In the Ming, there was the village of Louqian 楼前 in this area. Currently there are the four villages of Punan 浦南, Dongzhou 东洲, Dongjiao 东郊, Doumentou 陡门头. All these villages are managed by the Doumen Administrative Village 陡门行政村. The Feiyungong 飞云宫 temple, located in Punan 浦南 village, is the main temple for the four village ritual alliance. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Each year on 2/2, during the celebration of Toufu 头福, the gods of Feiyungong temple are taken on a procession to all the villages of the alliance. The Zhengxingtang 正兴堂 temple of Doumentou 陡门头 village is a Three in One temple 教祠 built collaboratively by the four village ritual alliance. 
V360 Punan 浦南 1. Village settlement The population of Punan is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Xie 谢 and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Punanjing Wanfushê 浦南境万福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Feiyungong 飞云宫: The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Yangjiuniang 杨九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of the Wanfushê 万福社 go on procession within the territory and practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by the village as a whole. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rites are celebrated. The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the four village ritual alliance go on procession together. These events are organized by the four village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these days, opera is performed and Three in one Scripture Masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
A079 Punan four village ritual alliance Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V361 Dongzhou 东洲 1. Village settlement The population of Dongzhou is approximately 320 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. There is an Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 3. Village temples Dongzhoujing Anjishê 东洲境安吉社 has now combined with Doumentou 陡门头 village, and was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of Anjishê 安吉社 go on a procession within its territory and practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. These events are organized by Dongzhou village together with Doumentou village, and funds are collected from residents of both villages on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Feiyun gong go on procession within the four village ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the four-village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Anjishê 安吉社 and the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V362 Dongjiao 东郊 1. Village settlement The population of Dongjiao village is approximately 250 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林and the Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Dongjiaojing Anjishê 东郊境安吉社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 2) Xinglanting 兴澜亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the gods of Anjishê 安吉社 go on procession through the village and practice the Dao in every household. A lantern procession is held at night. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Feiyun gong 飞云宫 go on procession within the four-village ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the four-village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxing tang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxing tang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Anjishê 安吉社 and the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxing tang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V363 Doumentou 陡门头 1. Village settlement The population of Dongmendou is approximately 158 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Su 苏. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Lin 林 and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Doumenjing Anjishê 陡门境安吉社 (combined with Dongzhou 东洲): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhengxingtang 正兴堂 was built during the early Qing Dynasty, and renovated after the founding of the PRC. The temple was originally located in a Buddhist temple called Chaozongan 朝宗庵, but was later built as an independent temple by the four-village alliance. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the gods of Anjishê 安吉社 go on procession within the village. These events are organized by the shê as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. The gods of Feiyungong飞云宫 go on a procession around the four-village ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the four-village ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/12: The birthday celebration of Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Anjishê 安吉社 and the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰. Opera is performed and Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Zhengxingtang 正兴堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A080 Caozhu erjia (Caojia two jia ritual alliance) 草渚二甲 
V364 Caozhu 草渚 1. Village settlement Caozhu erjia is located along the Southern main channel of the Yanshoubei 延寿陂南大沟 irrigation system Caozhu was originally called Yudai 俞埭 and belonged to the Douqian yulinpu 陡前俞 林铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. The village was settled during the Qing dynasty. The temple ritual system is divided into Qianjia 前甲 and Houjia 后甲 neighborhood ritual associations. Caozhu is now a part of the Doumen Administrative Village 陡门行政村. The population of the village is approximately 1000 people. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Caojia ritual alliance was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in the village is the Chen 陈. The other surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Gaoyishê 高义社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Wugu furen 五谷夫人 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 2) Xingshenggong 兴盛宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观 音大士, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Kui Zhongjun 魁中军. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元 帅, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. Caozhu two jia ritual alliance 4) Ciyinting 慈荫亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Chensheng faye 陈胜法爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 is invited to practice the Dao 道 and to take a procession around the village. This is organized by Qiancao 前草 and Houcao 后草 separately. Between 1/10–15, on a day determined by divination, the incense burners of the Gaoyishê 高义社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/20, on the last night of the Yuanxiao festival for this village, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Xingshenggong 兴盛宫 is taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2, the rites of Toufu (beginning good fortune) are held. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with marionette opera. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A081 Nanji Sevenfold ritual alliance 南箕七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanji includes Nanji 南箕 (Shangdun 上墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houdun 后墩, Haiwei 海尾), Zhudun 朱墩 (Chenzhuang 陈庄, Waiyang 外洋), Jiangbian 江边, Qianbudun 前布墩, Houbudun 后布 墩. This area was originally part of the Nanji pu (police/defense unit) 南箕 铺 of Dongpeng 东彭, and the Yulinpu 俞林铺 of Douqian 陡前, both of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里. This ritual alliance is located along the Southern main channel of the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂南大沟 irrigation system. In the Ming, the village of Nanji 南箕 was settled in this area. During the Qing, the villages of Qiandun 前墩, Fudun 傅墩, Zhudun 朱墩, Jiangbian 江边, Chenzhuang 陈庄 and Waiyang 外洋 separated off. Currently, Nanji is part of the Zhangzhen Administrative Village 张镇行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into seven independent ritual associations. Nanji sevenfold ritual alliance The Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 of Nanji 南箕 and the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 of Zhudun朱墩are the main temples for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god of Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙主神 is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. In years with an intercalary 9th lunar month, Tianshang shengmu is carried in a procession around the ritual alliance. The main god of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Formerly on lunar 8/1 Fazhu xianfei was carried in a procession around the alliance, but this ritual has not yet been revived. In the Ming dynasty, the Chen were a prominent lineage with successful examination graduates. In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Jinshi paifang 进士牌坊 in honor of one Chen Shan 陈善. 
V365 Nanji 南箕 1. Village settlement Nanji village is divided into four neighborhoods: Shangdun 上墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houdun 后墩, Haiwei 海尾. Their total population is approximately 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Peng 彭 and the Guo 郭. Secondary surname groups are Lin 林 and Zeng 曾. There was a Juren 举人 in the Ming Dynasty from this village and a paifang was erected. 3. Village temples 1) Nanjijing Zhangzhenshê 南箕境张镇社: The main gods are Chifeng Zunzhu mingwang 敕封尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. The secondary god is Wugu furen 五谷夫人. 2) Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 was built during the Yuan Dade period (1297– 1307). The temple was renovated both during the late Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulu jiangjun 五路将军, Yangong daren 晏公大人, Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 3) Haiwei Zhangzhenshê 海尾张镇社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Peng 彭 of Qiandun 前墩 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Peng 彭 of Zhongdun 中敦 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within that territory. On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Peng 彭 of Houdun 后墩 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within their territory. On 1/14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is invited by the Guo 郭 of Haiwei 海尾 to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within Haiwei’s territory. On 1/15 a common Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 is held. Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is invited to Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 and taken on a procession around the village with lantern processions at night. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Each year with an intercalary month, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is invited go on a procession throughout the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Funds are collected on a per capita basis from the respective neighborhoods or lineages, or from the village as a whole. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. Tianshang shengmu is invited to watch opera by Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩 villages in rotation. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Haiwei 海尾 Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 is organized by the Guo 郭. 8/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Nanji Zhangzhenshê 南箕张镇社 is organized by the Peng of Shangdun 上墩彭. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhangzhenshê 南箕张镇社 is organized by the Peng of Qiandun 前墩彭. 8/4: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhangzhenshê 南箕张镇社 is organized by the Peng of Houdun 后墩彭. 9/9: Celebration for the ascension day of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. On a day determined by divination in the ninth intercalary month, Tianshang shengmu is carried in a procession around the territory. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village, or the surname and neighborhood involved, organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V366 Jiangbian 江边 1. Village settlement The population of Jiangbian is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何 and Chen 陈. The He migrated here during the Yongle period (1403–1424). There is a He lineage ancestral hall 何氏祠堂. The He of Jiangbian are of the same ancestry as the He of Zhudun 朱墩. 3. Village temples 1) Zhangzhen heshê 张镇何社 is linked to the Zhuoling miao 濯灵庙: This temple was rebuilt in the 1936, and was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Jiucha dasheng 纠察大圣. Secondary gods include Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Jiangding shengwang 江定圣王. 2) Zhangzhen chenshê 张镇陈社: The main god is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Zhuolingmiao 濯灵庙: The main god is Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 4) Wuchangci 五常祠: This temple was built in Wanli 15 (1587) and rebuilt during the Daoguang period (1821–1850). The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 5) Zhenwumiao 真武庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary god is Leisheng puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊. 6) Lanyimiao 兰义庙: The main god is Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. 7) Defengsi Buddhist temple 德丰寺 was rebuilt in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:200). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 is invited by the Chen 陈 to practice the Dao in every one of their households and to go on procession within their territory. They hold a lantern procession at night. On 1/15 Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 is invited by the He 何 to practice the Dao in every one of their households and to go on procession within their territory. That night they hold a lantern procession. On a day determined by divination around 1/20, a common Yuanxiao is held and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 are invited to go on procession throughout the village. Every household goes to Zhuolingmiao 濯灵庙 to collect a lanten to hang in their own home 挂灯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual-event together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 9/09: The birthday celebration of Jiucha dasheng 纠察大神 and Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅. 10/09: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Zhudun 朱墩 1. Village settlement Zhudun is divided into three neighborhoods: Zhudun 朱墩, Chenzhuang 陈庄, Waiyang 外洋. Their total population is 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the He 何. 3. Village temples 1) Zhangzhen zushê 张镇祖社 was built in Tongzhi 1 (1862). This temple branched off from the Zhangzhen heshê 张镇何社 of Jiangbian 江边张镇. On 1/ 13 of every year, incense is requested 请香 from the Heshê 何社 to re-affirm the link between the temples. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫: Originally built prior to the Ming, the temple was rebuilt in the Jiajing 40 (1561). The temple is co-owned by three surnames: the Kang 康, the Wu 吴, and the He 何. The main god is Fazhu xianfei 法主 仙妃. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁 府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Shengzhongtang 圣中堂: This temple was built in the sixth year of Daoguang 6 (1826). The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Zhangzhen zushê 张镇祖社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. The villagers hold a lantern procession at night. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The entire village organizes the ritual-event together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13 villagers go to the Jiangbian Zhangzhen heshê 江边张 镇何社 to request incense-ash 请香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/21: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Prior to the 1949, on this day Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 went on a procession around the following villages: Budun 布墩, Nanji 南箕, Xuzhu 西洙, Jiangbian 江边, and Zhudun 朱墩. This procession has not been restored. 9/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V368 Qianbudun 前布墩 1. Village settlement The population of Qianpudun is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Fu 傅. There is a Fu lineage ancestral hall 傅氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Zhangzhenshê 张镇社, Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Fuxingtang 福兴堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the gods of Zhangzhenshê 张镇社 are invited to go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. The villagers hold a lantern procession at night. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. During the 9th lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V369 Houbudun 后布墩 1. Village settlement The population of Houbudun is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing zushê 新兴祖社 was built in Jiaqing 14 (1809). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄 坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Li daren 李大人, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Zhenxingting 振兴亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Xinxing zushê 新 兴祖社 go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. They hold a lantern procession that night. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/09: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Marionette opera is performed. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/23: The birthday celebration of Lifu daren 李府大人. On the above dates, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A082 Haopu qijing (Haopu sevenfold ritual alliance) 濠浦七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Haopu is located in between the southern main channel of the Yanshou irrigation system 延寿陂南大沟 and the central main channel of the same system 延寿陂中大沟. This area was part of the Sizhou xizhupu (police/defense unit) 泗州西洙铺 and the Dongyang Wutangpu 东阳吴塘铺 of the Yanxingli sub-canton 延兴里, along with the Xunan jindianpu 徐南锦店铺 of Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the following villages were already settled here: Xizhu 西洙, Dongyang 东洋, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xiawutang 下吴塘 and Xiji 西机. In the Qing the following villages separated off: Houwu 后吴, Houting 后亭, Dongdai 东埭, Dunzi 墩仔, Tiancuo 田厝, Huanggoubian 黄沟边, Gouxi 沟西, Gouwei 沟尾 and Tiancen 田岑. Currently the area is managed by the two Administrative Villages of Xizhu 西洙 and Dongyang 东阳行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to the she-miao temple system into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The sevenfold ritual alliance of Haopu includes Xizhu 西洙, Dongyang 东阳, Dongdai 东埭, Houwu 后吴, Xishi 西施, Xuqiao 徐桥, and Gouxi 沟西. The Haopushê 濠浦社 temple, located in Xuqiao 徐桥 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is the Imperially Enfeoffed Zhongzhen shenghou 敕封忠正圣侯 (a glorified title for Zunzhu minghuang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival the temples of the sevenfold alliance each come in turn to the Haopushê temple to invite the gods to their home villages. Each village in the ritual alliance also visits the Haopushê in turn during the ninth lunar month in order to sponsor performances of opera in commemoration of the feast day of the gods. 
A082 Haopu sevenfold ritual alliance Historically, the Wu lineage of Xizhu 西洙吴 and the Chen lineage of Dongyang 东洋陈 were both prominent lineages with many successful examination graduates. In the Ming, the Wu lineage produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and nine Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) while the Chen lineage produced seven Jinshi and fourteen Juren. In Ming Jingtai 4 (1453), the Xinghua Prefect set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage. The following year, Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) the Putian District Magistrate 莆田知县 set up a Zhuoxiu 擢秀牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Wu lineage 吴. Soon thereafter, in Ming Chenghua 9 (1473) the 巡按御史 Regional Inspector set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway in honor of the Chen lineage. 
V370 Xizhu 西洙 1. Village settlement Xizhu village is a part of Xizhu Administrative Village 西洙行政村. Xizhu village is divided into two parts, called Dainei 埭内 and Daiwai 埭外, with a total of nine neighborhoods. Neidai includes the four neighborhoods of Tiancuo 田厝, Xincuo 新厝, Houting 后亭, and Dunzi 墩仔, while Waidai includes the five neighborhoods of Huanggoubian 黄沟边, Menqian 门前, Tingding 厅顶, Weicuo 尾厝, and Houzhuang 后庄. The present total population of Xizhu village is approximately 4000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Wu 吴. This was recognized as being a prominent family 望族, with three Jinshi 进士 and nine Juren 举人 degrees awarded during the Ming Dynasty. There were three paifang 牌坊 in the village at that time. 3. Village temples (Haopushê 濠浦社, the main temple of the alliance, is located in Xuqiao 徐桥). 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社: located in Huanggoubian 黄沟边. The main god is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xufu daren 徐府大人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fushi jiangjun 副使将军, Wuhu jialuo 五虎 伽罗 and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Yuanyingmiao 元应庙 is located in Daiwai 埭外. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将 军 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Tengyungong 腾云宫 is located in Dunzai 墩仔. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianzun yuanshuai 天尊元 帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Kuiguang shuyuan 奎光书院, located in Daiwai 埭外 and was built during the Baoqing period (1225–1227). There is a plaque from Jiaqing 2 (1797). The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Yiyong pujihou 义勇普济侯 (Wu Xing 吴兴, also called as Gufengye 古峰爷), and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 5) Puguangci 普光祠: located in Dunzi 墩仔. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚 and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 6) Zhaoyangci 朝阳祠 is located in Dainei. The temple was built during the Ming Wanli 万历 period (1573–1620) and rebuilt during the Qing Tongzhi 同治 period (1862–1874). The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo Zhenren 卓真人, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Chensheng hufa 陈胜 护法, Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 records 122 initiates. 7) Shenggongmiao 圣公庙 is located in Xincuo 新厝. The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Fengdeci 凤德祠 is located in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 9) Mingxiatang 明夏堂: located in Tianzhuang 田庄. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Pumingtang 普明堂: located in Tianzhuang 田庄. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Daiwai 埭外 invites the gods of the Haopushe 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory and practice the Dao in every household. These events are organized by Daiwai. On 1/15 Dainei 埭内 invites the gods of the Haopushê to go on procession within its territory and practice the Dao in every household. These events are organized by Dainei. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is organized by Daiwai 埭外. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Dainei 埭内. 3/22: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人 is organized by Huanggoubian 黄沟边. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. These events are organized by Daiwai 埭外. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the village. 7/10: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is organized by Daiwai 埭外. 9/3: The birthday celebration of Yiyong pujihou 义勇普济侯. 9/22: The birthday celebration of the Chifeng Zhongzheng shenghou 敕封 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) is organized by the village On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rituals are held. Funds are collected on a per capita basis, along with voluntary contributions. 
V371 Dongyang 东阳 1. Village settlement Dongyang village was originally called Dongyang 东洋. Dongyang village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳 行政村. The population of Dongyang is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. They were recognized as a prominent family 望族, and achieved seven Jinshi 进士 and fourteen Juren 举人 degrees in the Ming Dynasty. There is a paifang 牌坊 in the village. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Linchaogong 临潮宫: The main gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yaogong ershi 姚公二使, and Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 2) Qiyang shuyuan 淇阳书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/20 the Yuanxiao festival ends in this village. The gods of Linchaogong 临潮 宫 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on a procession through Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xishi 西施, Goumei 沟美, Gouxi 沟西. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 2nd lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is held. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The god is taken on a procession within the village. 7/29: The birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Chifeng zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正 圣侯. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V372 Gouxi 沟西 1. Village settlement Gouxi village is also known as Jiaoxi 郊西. Gouxi village is a part of the Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population of Gouxi is approximately 325 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Gouxigong 沟西宫, Dongyangxijing Fuhaigong 东阳西境福海宫: The main god is Cigan renhui xianfei 慈感仁惠仙妃. Secondary gods include Baima xianggong 白马相公, Wulu yuanshuai 五路元帅, Lu sheren 卢舍人 and Wuzhaojun 五兆君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦 社 are invited to go on a procession within the village and practice the Dao in every household. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession within Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xishi 西施, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/06: The birthday celebration of Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃 and Wulu jiangjun 五路元帅. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Chifeng zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正 圣侯 is organized together with Dongyang 东洋 village. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V373 Dongdai 东埭 1. Village settlement Dongdai village is a part of Xizhu Administrative Village (西洙行政村). Dongdai includes two neighborhoods: Dongdai 东埭 and Houwu 后吴. Their total population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Jin 靳 and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦 社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Jiangtougong 江头宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was rebuilt recently. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Qianshi shengfei 钱氏圣妃. 3) Sanchici 三池祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Hemeian 和美庵 was built in Xuantong 2 (1910) (PTZJZCG, 1992:218). 5) Deqingan 德庆庵 was rebuilt in 1980 (PTZJZCG, 1992:218). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Houwu 后吴 neighborhood invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. They hold a lantern procession at night. This event is organized by the Wu 吴. On 1/12, Dongdai 东埭 neighborhood invites the gods of Haopu shê to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. They hold a lantern procession at night. These events are organized by the Jin 靳. On 1/21–23, Houwu 后吴 invites the gods of Jiangtougong 江头宫 to go on a procession within the village. These events are organized by the Wu 吴 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, Dongdai 东埭 invites the gods of Jiangtougong 江头宫 to go on a procession within the village. These events are organized by the Jin 靳. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/21: The birthday celebration of Chifeng zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正 圣侯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V374 Xuqiao 徐桥 1. Village settlement Xuqiao village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population of Xuqiao is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Xu 徐, Chen 陈, Huang 黄, and You 游. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Haopushê 濠浦社: (This temple is owned by the sevenfold ritual alliance). Built in Tianshun 1 (1457), the temple was restored in the Jiaqing period (1796–1820). A stele survives from that period. The temple was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Chifeng Zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王), Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Wuhu Jialan 五虎伽蓝. This temple preserves three stelae, the Jiaqing 6 (1801) 重建西 漳濠浦社碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the earth god temple of Haopu in Xizhang); the Jiaqing 18 (1813) 重建濠浦里社记 (Record of the repairs to the Haopu village earth god temple) ; and the Daoguang 23 (1843) 濠浦社禁约碑 (Stele outlining prohibitions and statutes of the Haopu earth god temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995, pp. 265, 290, 308, No. 230, 252, 273). 2) Longxingmiao 隆兴庙 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, gods of Longxingmiao 隆兴庙 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession within Xuqiao 徐桥, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang梧塘, Xishi 西施, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/23: The birthday celebration of Xishi 西施. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V375 Xishi 西施 1. Village settlement Xishi village was originally called Xiji 西机. Xishi village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population of Xishi is 228 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples (the main temple for the alliance is the Haopushê 濠浦社 in Xuqiao 徐桥) 1) Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Xinxingci 新兴祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xinxingmiao 新兴庙: The main god is Xufe daren 徐府大人. Secondary gods include Qixiannü 七仙女 and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23, the Weiye Yuanxiao 尾夜元宵 is celebrated and the gods of Xinxingmiao 新兴庙 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of the Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession through Xishi 西施, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by the Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 5/19: The birthday celebration of Xufu daren 徐府大人. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Marionette opera is performed. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Chifeng Zhongzheng shenghou 敕封忠 正圣侯. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V376 Wutang 梧塘 1. Village settlement Wutang was originally called Haotang 濠塘, Xiawutang 下梧塘or Wutang 吴塘. Wutang village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village 东阳行政村. The population is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shê 佘. The Shê migrated from Zhenqian 镇前 during the early Qing, and they have an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples Wan’anshê 万安社 was built during the late Qing, and renovated both during the Republican era and after the founding of PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Wan’anshê 万安社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of the Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on a procession through Wutang 梧塘, Xishi 西施, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Goumei 沟美, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by the Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/22: The birthday celebration of Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V377 Goumei 沟美 1. Village settlement Goumei village is also know as Gouwei 沟尾 or as Jiaowei 郊尾. Goumei village is a part of Dongyang Administrative Village (东阳行政村). The population is over 212 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Yangzhici 仰止祠, Yongqingshê 永庆社 was built during the late Qing Dynasty, and was renovated both during the Republican period and after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xu daren 徐大人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the incense burners of the Yongqingshê 永庆社 are invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On 1/14 the gods of the Yangzhici are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linchaogong 临潮宫 goes on procession through Goumei 沟美, Dongyang 东阳, Wutang 梧塘, Xuqiao 徐桥, Xishi 西施, and Gouxi 沟西. These events are organized by Linchaogong 临潮宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A083 Changshan sishê (Changshan four shê ritual alliance) 畅山四社 The four shê alliance of Changshan is located just downstream of the Yanshou Weir, in between the main southern irrigation channel 延寿陂南大沟 and the main central channel 延寿陂中大沟 of the Yanshoubei irrigation system, at the point where the main northern irrigation channel 延寿陂北 大沟 divides off. This area was part of the Changshan Dapanpu 畅山大泮 铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Changshan 畅山 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Daban 大 泮, Putou 浦头, and Xitou 溪头 separated off. Currently, these villages are Changshan four shê ritual alliance managed by the Changshan Administrative Village 畅林行政村. The temple ritual order is divided according to the she-miao temple system into four shê ritual associations. The Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 temple, located in Changshan 畅山 village, is the main temple of the four shê ritual alliance. The main god is Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. It is said that formerly, the goddess would be taken on processions to the four shê temples of the alliance at irregular intervals, but this has not yet been revived. Historically, the Yao 姚 lineage of Changshan were a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. Over the Ming dynasty, they produced two Jinshi进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and five Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates) In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Changshan were part of the white banner alliance. 
V378 Changshan 畅山 1. Village settlement The population of Changshan is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xie 谢. Other surnames include the Pang 庞 and the Yao 姚. In the Ming, this village had one prominent lineage 望族 (the Xie) which produced two Jinshi 进士, and seven Juren 举人. 3. Village temples Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, Zhongjingshê 中井社 was rebuilt in the Xuande period (1909–1911). The main gods are Shuji shenghou 顺济圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王), Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣 王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君 and Xushi shengfei 许氏圣妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 the gods of Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫 and Zhongjingshê 中井社 (excluding Xushi shengfei 许氏圣妃 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃) are carried in a procession within the village. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is taken on a procession to practice the Dao 行道 in every household. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The birthday celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Shunji shenghou 顺济圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V379 Putou 浦头 1. Village settlement The population of Putou is approximately 568 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. There is a Huang ancestral hall 黄氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Chengxingshê 诚兴社 branched off from the Zhongjingshê 中井社 of Changshan 畅山. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanwei zhenjun 三位真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xushi shenfei 许氏圣妃, and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Xinxiangong 新仙宫: The main god is Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xietian dadi 协天 大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, and Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 3) Yixintang 一心堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 22 initiates. 4) Hezhuci 合珠祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 20 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Chengxingshê 诚兴社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/12: a group of villagers goes on pilgrimage to the Dongyueguan 东岳观 in Jiangkou 江口 to request the incense of the god Zhusheng dadi 注生 大帝. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V380 Daba 大坝 1. Village settlement Daba was originally known as Dapan 大泮. The population of Daba is approximately 630 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The village has several Christian believers. 3. Village temples 1) Huiling xinggong 会灵行宫, Xin’an shangshê 新安 上社 was destroyed by floods in 1958, rebult in 1983, and moved and rebult again in 1994. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Dongyue 东岳 Zhusheng shangdi 注生上帝 (this deity branched off 分香 from the Dongyueguan 东岳观 of Jiangkou 江口), and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃 (originally called Yangzhong xiangu 洋忠仙姑). Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Xingchongmiao 兴重庙: The main god is Xu daren 徐大人. 3) Xiangdeci 香德祠: rebuilt recently. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 11 initiates. 4) Shunjimiao 顺济庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary god is Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On1/14–15 the gods of Huiling xinggong 会灵行宫 and Xin’an shangshê 新安上社 go on procession within the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Wushi shengfei 吴氏仙妃 is taken on a procession around the village. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes these rituals together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/28: The birthday celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. 7/15: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Xu daren 徐大人. 11/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V381 Xitou 溪头 1. Village settlement Xitou village has 972 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zeng 曾, the Yang 杨 and the Weng翁. Minor surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Ke 柯. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation based on age. 3. Village temples 1) Xixi zushê 溪西祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Lisan furen 李三夫人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Chengbentang 承本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Xixi zushê 溪西祖社 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道. In the evening there is a lantern procession around the village boundaries. Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. On 1/28–29, Toufu 头福 is celebrated and Lisan furen 李三夫人 is taken on a procession around the entire village. In the evening, palm leaf sedan chairs are raced over bonfires, opera is performed, and Daoist rites are conducted. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: the celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人 is held. 8/15: the celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/16: the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist rites are carried out. 
A084 Nanjiao qijing (Nanjiao sevenfold ritual alliance) 南郊七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanjiao is located along the central main channel of the Yanshoubei 延寿陂中大沟 irrigation system. This area was part of the Nanjiaopu 南郊铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Nangou (Nanjiao) 南沟 (南郊) was settled. In the Qing it divided into Shangnangou/jiao 上南沟 and Xianangou/jiao 下南沟. Currently the area includes the natural villages of Jiaonan 郊南, Jiaobei 郊北, Xikou 溪口, Xiananjiao 下南郊, Xiyang 西洋, Weicuo 尾厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Xiangli 衖里, Qiaotou 桥头, and Gongdou 宫兜. All these villages are managed by the Nanjiao Administrative Village 南郊行政 村. The temple ritual order is divided according to the system of shê altar temples into seven jing 七境 ritual territories. The Wanxing xingong 万兴新宫, located in Jiaobei 郊北 village, and the Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 located in Xiananjiao Qiaotou village 下南郊桥 头, are the main temples of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Every year on lunar 1/23, the villagers of Shang and Xiananjiao go on a pilgrimage to Lingyundian 凌云殿 temple on top of Hugong 壶公 Mountain to invite the temple’s Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 to go on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance of Nanjiao. Each year on lunar 3/23, the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 is taken on a procession around the sevenfold alliance. 
V382 Jiaonan 郊南 1. Village settlement people. The population of Jiaonan is approximately 700 
A084 Nanjiao qijing sevenfold ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. Other surnames include the Lu 陆 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Wanxingruigong 万兴瑞宫, Wanxingshê 万兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the gods of Wanxingruigong 万 兴瑞宫 and Wanxingshê 万兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyun dian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 8/19: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V383 Jiaobei 郊北 1. Village settlement The population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is Kang 康. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing xingong 万兴新宫, Wanxingshê 万兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3) Hedetang 合德堂: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Wanxing xingong 万兴新宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyun dian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V384 Xikou 溪口 1. Village settlement The population of Xikou is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社 was built in 1928 and was renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Ma fu daren 马府大人. 2) Qingxinggong 清行宫: The main god is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Secondary gods are: Mafu daren 马府大人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大人, Shangzhu mafu 上主妈府, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Linshima 林氏妈, Erwei faye 二位法爷 and Sanwei xingban 三位兴班. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the gods of the Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社 are carried to every household to practice the Dao 行道. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V385 Xiananjiao 下南郊 1. Village settlement Xiananjiao is also know as Qiaotou 桥头. The population of Xiananjiao is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林and the Yang 杨. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiazhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Hualaisi Buddhist temple 华来寺. (PTZJZCG, 1992:199) 3) Wanyingting Buddhist pagoda 万应亭 was rebult in early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 The goddess is carried in a procession around the village. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V386 Xiyang 西洋 1. Village settlement The population of Xiyang is approximately 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Yang 杨. 3. Village temples Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the gods of Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a proces sion through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanxing xinshê 万兴新社. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with the villages of Weicuo 尾厝, Xiacuo 下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V387 Weicuo 尾厝 1. Village settlement Weicuo village includes Qiaotou 桥头. The population of Weicuo is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 (actually located in Nanjiao 南郊, see below): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Qinglongdian 青龙殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Wanglinguan 王灵官 and Zhang Tianshi 张天师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the gods of the Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is organized in rotation with the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Xiacuo下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
V388 Xiacuo 下厝 1. Village settlement The population of Xiacuo is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 (actually located in Nanjiao 南郊): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Lufu 鲁府: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Ruiyundong 瑞云洞: The main god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Jiangfu daren 江府大人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the gods of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Xiacuo 下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
V389 Xiangli 衖里 1. Village settlement The population of Xiangli is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. There is a Lin ancestral hall named the Qingyuanci 庆源祠 which is co-owned with the Gongdou Lin 宫兜林. 3. Village temples 1) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 (actually located in Nan jiao 南郊): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Qinglinggong 青凌宫 was built in Guangxu 29 (1903). The main god are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Daxiong 大兄 and Erxiong二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized together with the Gongdou Lin 宫兜林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized in rotation with the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Xiacuo下厝, and Xiangli 衖里, each village taking its turn in organizing the ritual once every four years. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 
V390 Gongdou 宫兜 1. Village settlement The population of Gongdou is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Huang 黄and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Yangqingong 洋沁宫 was rebuilt in Guangxu 23 (1897). The main god is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Wanxing zushê 万兴祖社(actually located in Nanjiao 南郊): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3) Heqing shudetang 合清树德堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, the gods of Yangqingong 洋沁宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/23 Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyun dian 凌云殿 goes on a procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Wangxing xingong 万兴新宫 of Jiaobei 郊北, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: the birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A085 Jiaoxia qijing (Jiaoxia sevenfold ritual alliance) 郊下七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiaoxia is located along the middle main channel of the Yanshoubei irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟. This area was part of the Nangoupu 南沟铺 (police/defense unit), the Shangwei Dengkekoupu 上魏登科口铺 and the Xunan Jindianpu 徐南锦店铺 of Xunan, all part of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. The village of Goubei 沟北 and Chenjiakou 陈家口 were settled in the Ming. In the Qing, the villages of Xiating 下亭, Qianting 前亭, Siting 四亭, Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Xiting 西亭 and Qianzhang 前张 all separated off. All the villages of the area are now managed by the Haopu Administrative Village 濠浦行政村. The temple ritual order is divided according to the shê-altar and temple system into seven ritual territories. The Haopugong 濠浦宫 temple, located in Jiaoxia 郊下 (沟北) Goubei village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Formerly, the god was taken on procession 
A085 Jiaoxia sevenfold ritual alliance on irregular occasions to the shê-altar s and temples of the sevenfold alliance, but these collective processions have not yet been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiaoxia was part of the white banner alliance. 
V391 Xiating 下亭 1. Village settlement Xiating is also known as Haoting 濠亭. Xiating village is divided into the following neighborhoods: Xiating 下亭 (Haoting 濠亭), Tiancuo 田厝, and Xiagou 下沟. The population is approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Their founding ancestor came from Beigao Shanqian 北高山前 in 1540. They have the same ancestor as do the Donghua Chen 东华陈. 3. Village temples 1) Haopushê 濠浦社: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯(Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Gongcao dasheng 功曹大圣, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Fulingong 福麟宫: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lufu dashen鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Zhongjun ye 中军爷. 3) Xingjitan 兴济坛: The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Bangfuci 榜福祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Wuji xiansheng 无极先生, Wusheng xiansheng 吴圣先生, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Anfu dashi 安府大师, Huatuo xianshi 华佗仙师, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Jin daren 金大人, Bai daren 白大人, Li daren 李大人 and Wenwu liesheng 文 武列圣. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 38 initiates. 5) Sanzhongci 三中祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Dizang renshi 地藏人师, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者, Chensheng hufa 陈胜 护法, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Weng Yiyang 翁一扬, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 6) Tudici 土地祠: located in Xiagou 下沟. The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7) Fushouci 福寿祠: located in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:5 records 41 initiates. 8) Fulingong 绂麟宫: located in Tiancuo 田厝. The main god is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 9) Mingxintang 明新堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:6 records 39 initiates. 10) Fushanan 福善庵 was rebult in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:200) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Five Fushou 福首 (Shêlu 社炉) are selected in rotation according to age each year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人, Li daren 李大人 and Bai daren 白大人. 2/3: The birthday celebration of Zhongyou shenghou 忠正圣侯. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/16: The birthday celebration of Zhongjun ye 中军爷. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神诞辰 is organized by Xiagou 下沟. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Tiancuo 田厝. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/1: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village or neighborhood organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V392 Siting 四亭 1. Village settlement The population of Siting is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhang 张, Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Haopu shê 濠浦社, Xiangying xiantan 祥应显坛: The main gods are Zhongyou shenghou 忠祐圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of the Haopushê 濠浦社 and the Xiangying xiantan 祥应显坛 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The birthday celebration of Zhongyou shenghou 忠祐圣侯 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V393 Jiaoxia 郊下 1. Village settlement Jiaoxiao is also called Haopu 濠浦, Chenjiakou 陈家口, Dengkekou 登科口, and Goubei 沟北. The village is divided into two neighborhoods: the Dongjing (east ritual alliance) 东境 and the Xijing (west ritual alliance) 西境. The total village population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yao 姚. 3. Village temples 1) Dengkegong 登科宫 was built in the late Ming. The temple was later moved and rebuilt in Qianlong 1 (1736), and was renovated in 1927. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太使, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣 妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lisan furen 李三夫人, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Haopugong 濠浦宫: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xianmu yuanjun 仙母元君, Xiannü niangniang 仙女娘娘, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yuanshi tianzun 元始 天尊, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Xijing 西境 invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/13 Dongjing 东境 invites the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 to go on a procession within its territory. On 1/14–15 a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Dengkegong 登科宫 are invited to go on a procession throughout the village. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/22: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Xijing 西境 ( the western ritual territory) 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Dongjing 东境 (the eastern ritual territory). On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by the neighborhoods of the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V394 Xizhang 西漳 1. Village settlement Xizhang village is also known as Qianzhang 前张. The total village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Haopushê 濠浦社, Zhaominggong 昭明宫: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 2) Tianhuaan 天花庵: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Hebentang 合本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:10 records 66 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Haopushê 濠浦社 and Zhaominggong 昭明宫 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 9/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V395 Xiting 西亭 1. Village settlement Xiting was originally called Qianting 前亭. The population of Xiting is approximately 240 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Li 李 and the Huang 黄. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Haopushê 濠浦社, Yutianci 玉天祠, Ruiliandong 瑞莲洞: The main gods are Zhongzheng shenghou 忠正圣侯(Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zheng daren 郑大人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners shêlu 社炉 of Haopushê 濠浦社, Yutianci 玉天祠 and Ruiliandong 瑞莲洞 are carried to every household to practice the Dao 道 and then go on a procession within the village. On 1/24, the final evening of the Yuanxiao festival, the wanye Yuanxiao 晚夜元宵, is celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongheng shenghou 忠正圣侯 (Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王) and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A086 Changfeng qijing (Changfeng sevenfold ritual alliance) 长丰七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Changfeng is located along the central main channel of the Yanshou irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟. This area was part of the Shangwei Dengkekoupu 上魏登科口铺 and the Xunan Jindianpu 徐 南锦店铺 (police/defense units), both of which were in the Xiaoyili subcanton 孝义里. The village of Changfang 长坊村 was settled in the Ming, and was part of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton, but in the Qing it became part of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. Over the Qing, this village branched off into the following villages: Qiandun 前墩, Houdun 后墩, Shangnan 上南, Xiaoxiali 郊下里, and Yangzhong 洋中. Currently these villages are managed by the Changfeng 长丰 and Haopu Administrative Villages 濠浦二行政村. The temple ritual order is divided according to shê-altars and temples into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The Tianhougong 天后宫 temple, located in Houdun 后墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 3/23, on the feast day of the goddess, a procession is held to all the ritual territories and all the subsidiary villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Historically, the Lin lineage of Changfeng 长丰林 was a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. In the Ming this lineage produced four Jinshi 进士 and six Juren 举人. The Zhang 张 lineage of the same village also produced two Juren 举人. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold alliance of Changfeng was part of the black banner alliance. 
A086 Changfeng sevenfold ritual alliance Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement Qiandun village is a part of Changfeng Administrative Village 长丰行政村. The population is 575 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Weng 翁 and the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Fuxinggong 福兴宫, Fuxingshê 福兴社 was built in the Ming Chongzhen 1 (1628), and renovated both during the late Qing and after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. Secondary gods include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Xu taiye 徐太爷, and Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 2) Wanhuating 万花亭: The main god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神, and torches are lit 点火把. On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on a procession to every household. On 1/13 the Weng 翁 and the Zeng 曾 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 to go on a procession to every household. On 1/24, the final evening of the Yuanxiao festival (Weiye Yuanxiao) is celebrated and new Fushou 福首 are selected in place of those of the succeeding year 新旧福首交接. On 1/29 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. The gods of the Fuxingshê 福兴社 are invited to go on procession within Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. These events are organized by Fuxingshê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Marionette opera is performed. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 8/12–13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized with Houdun 后墩 in turns. 10/28: A procession is held within the village. Both the main gods and secondary gods participate. However, only some of the gods are taken on procession. Different surname groups host the gods on different days. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by surname groups, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V397 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun village is a part of Changfeng Administrative Village 长丰行政村. The village is divided into three territories. The population is approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Changfengjing Fuxingshê 长丰境福兴社 was built in Ming Jiajing 16 (1537). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built recently as a division of Fuxingshê 福兴社. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Xinanci 新安祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Ligong daren 李公大人 and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 4) Qilinsi Buddhist temple 祗林寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1871–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of the Fuxingshê 福兴社 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. The gods of the Fuxingshê 福兴社 are invited to go on procession within Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. These events are organized by Fuxingshê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 8/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On there dates, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V398 Chennnan 辰南 1. Village settlement Chennan village was originally called Shangnan 上南. Chennan village is a part of Changfeng Administrative Village 长丰行 政村. The population of Chennan is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Zhang 张, and Huang 黄. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples Anren zushê 安仁祖社, Lingxunmiao 灵逊庙: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Cigan xianfei 慈感仙妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18–19 the gods of Anren zushê 安仁祖社 and Lingxunmiao 灵逊庙 are invited to practice the Dao in every household and to go on a procession within the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V399 Jiaoxiali 郊下里 1. Village settlement Jiaoxiali was originally called Jiaobeili 郊北里. Jiaoxiali village is a part of Haopu Administrative Village 濠浦行政村. Jiaoxiaoli is made up of two two neighborhoods: Jiaoxiali 郊下里 and Yangzhongyang 洋中央. The total population is 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. They have a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wen daren 温大人, Jin daren 金大人, Pangu dijun 盘古帝君, and Lisan furen 李三夫人. 2) Qinglian xinggong 青莲行宫: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教 主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuozhenren 卓真人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元 君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qinming daren 钦命大人 and Daxiong 大兄 (Jishen 乩神) . 3) Wenfengshê 文峰社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Lisan furen 李三夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Panguan jishi 判官吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken on a procession around the village. Anrenshê 安仁社 and Wenfengshê 文峰社 separately organize the event. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Three in One scripture masters 经师 are invited to conduct rituals. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by the village. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by the village. 7/16: The celebration of the apotheosis of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 8/4: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Anrenshê 安仁社 is organized by the Anrenshê. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wenfengshê 文峰社 is organized by the Wenfengshê. On these occasions, opera is performed and either Three in One scripture masters or Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. The events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê temples and their communities, and funds are raised on a per capita basis and/or by voluntary contributions. 
A087 Chenqiao sicun (Chengqiao four village ritual alliance) 陈桥四村 The Chengqiao sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Central main channel of the Yanshoubei Irrigation system 延寿里中大沟. Some of its lands are on the north shore of another bend in the Mulan 木兰 river. This area was part of the Chenqiao Sanfupu 陈桥三辅舖 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming the villages of Chenqiao 陈桥村 and Sanbu 三步 were already settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Houdun 后墩 and Hanba 涵坝 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Chenqiao Administrative Village 陈桥行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to shê-altars and temples into a sevenfold ritual alliance. The Wenchenggong 文成宫 temple, located in Houdun 后墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold alliance. The Wanan taizhushê 万安太祖 社 is the founding shê-altar of the sevenfold alliance 七境祖社. Each year on lunar 1/27, the general Yuanxiao festival of the alliance is celebrated. This is organized by the temple committee made up of representatives of each of the members of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four village alliance of Chenqiao was part of the white banner alliance. Chengqiao four village ritual alliance 
V400 Chenqiao 陈桥 1. Village settlement The village of Chenqiao has a population of over 2500 people. The village is divided into the following neighborhoods: Weixiang 尾巷, Shanggou 上沟, Zhongjianzhan 中间站, and Weicuo 尾厝. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname makes up 90% (2200 people), while the Wu 吴 make up 10% (250人). In addition there are some households surnamed Xie 解, Shen 沈, Zhang 张, Yu 俞, and Li 李. According to the Chen legend, the first ancestor of the Chen in Putian was an official from Henan 河南 who moved to Kuokou 阔口 outside Putian city. The Chen of Chenqiao moved to this village from Kuokou. They have divided into four lineage branches of which the third branch is the largest, with over 2000 people. There are now two ancestral halls for the lineage as a whole. The first is now the Laorenhui 老人会 (Elderly Association), the other is a storehouse. There is no lineage genealogy in the village. The ancestral tombs are in Lingquan on Hugong 壶公 Mountain. Formerly, groups were organized to sweep the tombs, but this has been discontinued The Wu came from Jiangxi 江西 province. There were six brothers who moved to Putian and established six villages (Chenqiao 陈桥, Wujiao 梧郊, Xizhu 西洙, Xiaotang 筱塘, etc.). In Chenqiao village the Wu have divided into three branches, and the third branch is the largest with over 100 people. Originally there was an ancestral hall (but no longer). The lineage genealogy can be seen in Xizhu village 西洙 near Putian. 3. Village temples 1) Chenqiaojing Wufugong 陈桥境五福宫 contains the altar of the Wanan dongshê 万安东社, and is said to have been first built in the Song dynasty, but which has been recently rebuilt. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wutan zhizun 五坛至尊, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Shiwuma 十五妈, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, and Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 2) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅, Yuqiren 玉旗人, Jinqiren 金旗人. The SSCDCB, 1992:9 records 30 initiates. 3) Zhizhongtang 致中堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SSCDCB, 1992:10 records 32 initiates. 5) Dexintang 德心堂 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206) 6) Qingmingtang 庆明堂 was built in the early Republican period. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Weixiang 尾巷 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Shanggou 上沟 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Wu 吴 of Zhongjianzhan 中 间站 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 Dongxing 东兴 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Weicuo 尾厝 and Shanbu 山步 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/27 the general Yuanxiao of the four village ritual alliance is held 总元宵. The spirit mediums 神童 form tanban 坛班 altar association, and carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and his incense burner 香炉 on a procession 巡游. This event was originally organized the by the village elders 乡老, but now a temple management committee has been established with sixteen members to organize the celebrations, and they invite Daoist masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮 and issue proclamations 榜文. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for two days or more. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Zhongyitang temple committee, who invite Three in One scripture masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held in rotation with Houdun 后墩 with each village sponsoring opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are two spirit mediums 神童, one possessed by Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, the other by Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. There is no guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training, but there is a tanban 坛班 altar association, which strikes bells and drums and chants until the spirit mediums go into a trance. On 11/25, the Zhongyitang 中一堂 performs the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Lanpen 兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance). These rites are performed by the initiates 道友 of the temple, as are the regular monthly rites. 
V401 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement The population of Houdun village is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname. 3. Village temples 1) Chenqiaojing Wenchingdian 陈桥境文成殿 is the main temple of the Chenqiao village 陈桥村总宫 and was built in Qianlong 60 (1795), and restored in 1985 and 1991. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiankui 天魁 and Dikui 地魁. The back hall is dedicated to the parents of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝父母, Wang lingjun 王灵君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Heqing xingjun 何清星君, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and the Twelve Generals. 2) Chenqiaojing Wanan taizushê 陈桥境万安太祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 3) Zhaojiaotang 照角堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods include Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Jialan 伽蓝, Weituo 韦陀, Xianzhu longnü 献珠龙女, Shancai dongzi 善才童子. 4) Yinqiao shuyuan 印桥书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Secondary gods include Beidou kuixing 北斗魁星, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Ziyi shusheng 紫衣书生, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with at least two days of opera. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5/15: The celebration of Tiankui 天魁 and Dikui 地魁 is held with three days of opera. 5/17: The celebration of Wang lingguan 王灵官. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with Chenqiao 陈桥 village, which takes turns sponsoring opera performances. 
V402 Hanba 涵坝 1. Village settlement Hanba is across an irrigation channel from Chenqiao 陈桥, and has a population of over 100 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surnames in the village, the Li 李, the Zhang 张, and the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Hanbajing Qingyunmiao 涵坝境庆云庙 contains the altars of Dongqingshê 东庆社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, and Fengguang jiutong 风光九童. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 invite the gods of the Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 and the Dongqingshê 东庆社 to go on a procession through the village. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 6/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with two days of opera. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V403 Shanbu 山步 1. Village settlement Shanbu was originally called Sanbu 三步. The village of Shanbu has a population of over 200 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname is dominant. They claim to have the same ancestors as the Chen 陈 of Chenqiao 陈桥. 3. Village temples 1) Wan’an dongqingshê 万安东庆社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Zong’aotang 宗鳌堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhenming xianzhu 贞明先主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zuoyou hufa 左右护法. 3) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include the Eighteen Lohan 罗汉. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the gods of the Wan’an dongqingshê 万安东庆社 on a procession through the village. On 1/27 the villagers participate in the four-fold village alliance general Yuanxiao celebration and procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with two days of opera. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups On 10/19 the Zong’aotang 宗鳌堂 performs the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 (Lanpen rites 兰盆). The ritual is performed by the Three in One initiates of the temple 道友. 
A088 Wujiao sancun (Wujiao three village ritual alliance) 梧郊三村 The Wujiao three village ritual alliance is located along the Central main channel of the Yanshoubei Irrigation system 延寿陂中大沟, and lies alongside the Baishui Reservoir 白水塘. The southern edge of the alliance rests on the north shore of the Mulan river, and was originally a salt flat for drying sea-salt. Yakou was a minor transshipment harbor. Hanjiang city is nearby to the north. This area was part of the Mudou xihupu 墓兜西湖铺 (police/ defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. The two villages of Guanxiekou 官泄口 (also called Mudou 墓兜, and now called Wujiao 梧郊) and 
A088 Wujiao three village ritual alliance Guanhou 宫后 were settled in the Ming. In the Qing, the villages of Yakou 衙口 and Yantian 盐田 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Shangwu 上梧 and Jiangwei Administrative Villages 江尾二行政村. The local temple ritual system is primarily organized according to current settlements into a three village ritual alliance. The Fuyugong 浮屿宫 temple, located in Wujiao 梧郊 village, is the main temple of the three temple alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. It is said that formerly the goddess was taken on processions to the villages of the alliance on irregular occasions, but these collective processions have not been revived. This temple preserves the stele composed in Jingding 4 (1263) entitled 浮屿宫石桥题刻 (Carved inscription on the stone bridge of the Fuyu Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:48, No. 43). Historically, the Wu 吴 lineage of Mudou 墓兜 were a prominent local lineage with successful examination graduates. Over the course of the Ming dynasty, they produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and eleven Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Wujiao 梧郊 and Lantian 蓝田 were part of the white banner alliance, while Yakou 牙口 was part of the black banner alliance. 
V404 Wujiao 梧郊 1. Village settlement Wujiao was originally called Mudou 墓兜 or Guanxiekou 官泄口 Wujiao includs the original Gonghou village 宫后 and belonged to the Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood, like that of Shangyu 上俞, is the making of doufu 豆腐. It is said that Yakou 牙口 on the river used to be a port for boats coming in from the sea, and that Wujiao was a customs station, and that the village developed around the station. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 is the dominant surname groups with around 500 people. The Wu 吴 are next largest with over 200 people. There are also other households surnamed Liu 刘, Ye 叶, Zhan 詹 and Xie 谢, etc. The Li 李 probably moved to the village in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). They are now divided into four branches, the Fu 福, Lu 禄, Shou 寿 and Houzhi 后置房 branches. The Fu branch is largest with over 200 people, and each of the other branches has about one hundred members. There used to be a lineage hall. They have no lineage genealogies or ancestral worship registers. The ancestral graves are behind the Houlian mountains in Wutang but they have already been abandoned, and villagers no longer can find their location. 3. Village temples 1) Wujiaojing Wujiao lishê 梧郊境梧郊里社 was built in the early Ming and restored in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baihe dayuanshuai 白和大元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Huye 虎爷. 2) Fuyu zumiao 浮屿祖庙 is linked to the Chongxing lishê 重兴里社. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Lingong yuanshuai 林公元帅. 3) Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 is owned by the surname group of the Li 李. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Chiqiaoan 赤桥庵 was built at the end of the Ming, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Fuhuitang 福会堂 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 6) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 Chongxing lishê 重兴里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 Wujiao lishê 梧郊里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 Chongxing lishê 重兴里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. On 1/20 Wujiao lishê 梧郊里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. On 1/24 Xinxing lishê 新兴里社 concludes the Yuanxiao festival with a procession around the boundaries of their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/19: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Two spirit mediums spontaneously go into trance upon hearing the drums and gongs. The spirit mediums sometime skewer their flesh with metal needles. When possessed, the spirit mediums can transmit the god’s messages through spirit writing, using the planchette. They can answer questions and predict the future. The organizers of the ritual celebrations are the village elders who are selected annually by rotation. They invite three Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. Xiayuan pudu 下元 普度 usually takes place a few days after winter solstice on a day determined by divination. Mulian opera 目连戏 is performed using marionettes. 
V405 Lantian 蓝田 1. Village settlement Lantian village was originally called Yantian 盐田 and belonged to the Jiangwei Administrative Village 江尾行政村. The village of Lantian has over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. The village belonged to the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 surname group is by far the dominant one in the village. They are related to the Wu of Zhoudun 周墩吴. The Wu lineage has divided into four branches. There is no ancestral hall, but there are two ancestral houses, where, in addition to the ancestors, are worshipped Guanyinfo 观音佛 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3. Village temples 1) Lantianjing Xinganshê 蓝田境兴安社 was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, Baiya dajiang 白牙大将, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Jinbao sheren 金宝舍人, Zhao wuye 赵五爷 and Zhang siye 张四爷. 2) Longtiantang 龙田堂 is dedicated to Sanyi xiansheng 三一先生. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 spirit mediums 神童 carry the incense burner of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 in a procession. On 1/13 a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 6/12: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Sometimes a single Daoist master is invited to recite scriptures. These events are organized by the 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The following gods of the Lantian lishê 蓝田里社 descend to possess spirit mediums: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 Each year divination blocks are cast to determine the presiding god 主坛神. At Yuanxiao the spirit mediums perform exorcistic dances 行傩. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. Thy invite Daoist masters 道士 to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. The Chiqiaoan 赤桥庵 Buddhist nunnery is collectively owned by Jiangwei 江尾, Yantian 盐田, Duxia 度下 and Wujiao 梧郊. It is run by Buddhist nuns, and Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is worshipped there. 
V406 Yakou 牙口 1. Village settlement Yakou village is a part of Jiangwei Administrative Village 江尾行政村. The population is over 300 people. Formerly the main livelihood was from brokerages. Nowadays, the main source of income is the sale of ritual offerings and spirit money. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the dominant surname group by far. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and are related to the Chen of Chenqiao 陈桥. 3. Village temples 1) Yajiangjing aojiang xishê 牙江境鳌江西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Yonganmiao 永安庙 is known as the Tanhufu 探花府 and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 visit each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. On 1/20, the spirit mediums of all the black banner alliance villages are invited to pick flower-flames 神童采花. (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of a Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held, and marionette plays are performed. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, and opera is performed for two days while Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days while Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. All these events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
A089 Shangyu qijing (Shangyu sevenfold ritual alliance) 上俞七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Shangyu is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白 塘 湖. This area was part of the Shangyu dukoupu 上俞度口铺 (police/ defense unit) and the Zhijie dachengpu 直街大埕铺 of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming, the two villages of Shangyu 上俞 and Daxicheng 大西埕 were already settled. In the Qing, the villages of Dukou 度口 (also known as Houting 后亭) separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Shangyu 上梧 and the Jikui Administrative Villages 集奎二行政村. The temple ritual order is divided up according to shê-altars and temples into seven ritual territories. The Yinfugong 迎福宫 temple, located in Shangyu 上俞 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the god would be taken in a procession to each of the villages of the alliance. These collective processions have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Shangyu sevenfold alliance was part of the white banner alliance. 
V407 Shangyu 上俞 1. Village settlement Shangyu village is a part of Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The population of Shangyu village is over 1000 people. The main surnames are Yu 俞 and Yu 喻. There are also the Jiang 蒋, Zheng 郑, Liu 刘, and Chen 陈 minor surnames. The main livelihood is doufu making, supplemented by leaving the village to work in construction. There are Tongzhi and Republican period stelae about bridge construction preserved in the village. 2. Surname groups The Yu 俞 are the main surname group, with seventy households 70 and over 300 people. The next largest surname group is the Yu 喻, which has over 158 people. The Yu 俞 moved to Shangyu from Tutou near Putian 莆田土头. They are divided into two branches: the Dong (east) 东, and Xi (west) 西 lineage branches. The Eastern branch has approximately 176 people living in forty-eight households, while the Western branch has over 210 people living in forty-six households. There is a general ancestral temple which is now the Village Elders Association. The Western branch originally had an ancestral hall but it has been torn down. The Jiang 蒋 about forty-six households and 174 people. The other surname groups total seventy-four households with 401 people in all, and include Liu 刘, Zheng 郑, Dai 戴 and Chen 陈 surnames. 
A089 Shangyu three village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Yuxijing Yingfushê 榆溪境迎福社 is linked to the Yingfugong 迎福宫. Legend has it that when Zheng Chenggong 郑成功 was attacking Taiwan, his troops tore down the temple to build boats for the invasion. Later a Yinfugong temple 迎福宫 was built in Taiwan. The temple in Shangyu village was rebuilt recently. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Xiehu jiangjun 协虎将军, and the Sida jingang 四大金刚. 2) Yingfusi 迎福寺 was originally the temple used for praying for rain by twenty-four surrounding villages 求雨寺. The main gods are Rulai fozu 如 来佛祖. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦陀 and Jialan 伽蓝. 3) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 contains the altar of the Shoufushê 受福社 originally belonged to the miscellaneous minor surname groups. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 Secondary gods include Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Xifu zushê 西福祖社 belongs to the Dai 戴. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Xixingshê 西兴社 belongs to the Jiang 蒋. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 6) Shuangchengtang 双成堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Weituo 韦陀. 7) Huilinting 慧林亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Shudeci 树德祠 is dedicated to Caigong 蔡公, Taixupuming 太虚普明, Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This temple belongs to the Guanmenjiao 关门教. 9) Zhengxingtan 正兴坛 is inside the Yongfu temple 永福寺: The main god is 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the Yu 俞 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18 the general Yuanxiao is held, and spirit mediums lead a procession around the village boundaries. At night they perform fire-walking rites. Formerly, Shangyu village would go on a joint procession at this time with the other villages in its while banner alliance, including Shangwu 上梧, Houting 后亭, Nancheng 南埕, and Yanning 延宁. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xixingshê 西兴社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Jiang 蒋. 8/6: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Yu 喻. 8/7: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Yingfushê 迎福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Yu 俞. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for two days. 9/23: The celebration of the Guanyin dashi 观音大士 of the Huilinting 慧林亭 is held and opera is performed for two days. Five spirit mediums perform a fire-walking ritual. 10/8: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shoufushê 受福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the miscellaneous minor surname groups. 10/23: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xifushê 西福社 is held and opera is performed for two days. This event is organized by the Dai 戴. 5. Ritual groups There are spirit mediums in Shangyu who have a tanban 坛班 altar association. They can transmit spirit writing by planchette 扶乩. There is however no guanjie 关戒 formal spirit medium training. Each year the different surname groups select by rotation ten Fushou 福首. On 10/15, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. These rites are organized and conducted by the village Three in One temple, the Shuangchengtang 双成堂. 8/1: 
V408 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting village was originally called Dukou 度口. Houting belongs to the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The population of Houting village is over 700 people. The main livelihoods are construction labor and transshipment of goods. 2. Surname groups The village has four main surname groups: the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Wu 吴. The Zhou have over 200 people, the Chen have 150, and the Li have over 130. It is said that the Zhou moved to Houting from Qingzhong in Huangshi 黄石清中. They are now into their seventh generation in the village, and are divided into two branches, with the most people in the first branch. The Li moved to Houting from Yangwei 洋尾 and are now into their fifth or sixth generation. The Chen have divided into three branches, which came to Houting from different places. The first branch came form Kuokou 阔口, the second branch came from Chenqiao 陈桥, and the third branch came from Moshang in the area beyond the coastal evacuations 界外磨上. 3. Village temples 1) Dutoujing Yingfushê 渡头境迎福社 is linked to the Yingfumiao 迎福庙. The temple was recently rebuilt. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府 大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Xinxingtan 新兴坛 is commonly called the Tanhuafu 探花府, and was built in the Qianlong 24 (1759). The temple is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 there is a procession around the boundaries of the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Daoist masters are summoned to hold jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 8/13: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Each year twelve Fushou 福首 are selected according to surname groups. The Chen 陈 select eight, the Li 李 select two, and the Zhou 周 select one. At the end of the 10th lunar month or early in the 11th the Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by a single ritual master. 
V409 Daicheng 岱埕 1. Village settlement Daicheng was originally called Daxicheng 大西埕 or Dacheng 大埕. Daicheng is a part of the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The village of Daicheng has a population of over 1600 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, the Xinyishê 新义社 and the Yingfushê 迎福社. 2. Surname groups There are many surname groups in the village, including the Yan 严, the Huang 黄, the Kang 康, the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, the Lu 陆, the Xu 徐, and the Lin 林. The Yan 严 make up one fifth of the vil lage population. The ancestors of the Yan lineage were boat builders 福清 光阴. They first worked in Hankou 涵口 painting boats, and later settled in Daicheng, where they have been for seven generations. The Yan have an ancestral hall in Fuqing county in the village of Guangyin 福清光阴, and there they also preserve a lineage genealogy. The Huang have between 300 and 400 people. Their origins are in Huangxia 黄霞. The Zheng 郑 have few households, but they nevertheless have an ancestral hall 祠堂 where they perform collective rites of worship to their founding ancestor and his spouse 合祭公婆. 3. Village temples 1) Taishijing Xinyishê 太师境新义社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods include Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Bai daren 白大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qixing furen 七星夫人, Wang daye 王大爷, and Shiwupo 十五婆. 2) Xilaiting 西来亭 contains the altar of the Yingfushê 迎福社. The main gods are Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jin daren 金大人, and Bai daren 白大人. 3) Sanchaogong 三潮宫 is dedicated to Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. Secondary gods include Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Wang zhongjun 王中军. 4) Yaoguangci 瑶光祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 44 initiates. 5) Rulintang 儒林堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 26 initiates. 6) Shundetang 顺德堂 (涵江岱埕) is dedicated to Tudigong 土地公. 7) Hunyuandian 混元殿 is located in Hanjiang daicheng 涵江岱埕. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the Yan 严 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/10 the Huang 黄 lineage takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 villagers go to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 Mountain to request incense fire from Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝香火. Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 possess spirit mediums who go on a procession through the village. Daoist ritual masters from Duotou 哆头 are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/29: The celebration of Bai daren 白大人. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The celebration of Puhua tianzun 普化天尊. The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Jin daren 金大人. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinyishê 新义社. 9/15: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. A procession is made to Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong 壶公 Mountain to request incense fire and opera is performed for three days. 10/17: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yingfushê 迎福社. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Fushou are selected by rotation according to age each year. The village has spirit mediums who during Yuanxiao perform exorcistic dances 行傩. The Sanchaogong 三潮宫 has spirit writing sessions 扶乩. The Yaoguangci 瑶光祠 performs Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance. 6/19: 6/24: 7/25: 7/24: 8/4: 
A090 Xihu ercun (Xihu two village ritual alliance) 西湖二村 The two village ritual alliance of Xihu is located between the Central main channel 延寿陂中大沟 and the Northern main channel 延寿陂北大沟 of the Yanshou irrigation system, and rests alongside the Baitang 白塘 Lake. This region also has the Xihu sluice-gate 西湖斗门, which empties freshwater from the Yanshou river into the tidal river mouth of the Mulan 木兰 river. This area was part of the Mudou Xihupu 墓兜西湖铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili (sub-canton) 孝义里. In the Ming, the village of Xihu 西湖 was already settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Duxia 度下 separated off. Currently these villages are managed by the Jikui 集奎 and Shangwu 上梧 Administrative Villages. The temple ritual system holds each village to be autonomous, but nevertheless each year on lunar 5/13 the two villages hold a collective dragon boat race and ritual. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the two villages of Xihu were part of the black banner alliance. 
V410 Xihu 西湖 1. Village settlement Xihu village belongs to the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The population of the Jikui is over 400 people. The main livelihood is slaughtering pigs and construction work. 
A090 Xihu two village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The village has the following surnames: the Wang 王, the Yu 俞, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, and the Zhang 张. The Wang make up about one third of the total population. It is said that the original settler of the village was surnamed Yu俞, and that he had been a district magistrate in Putian but that he had originally been from near Xihu 西湖 (West Lake) in Hangzhou 杭州. When he grew old and decided to retire, he placed a husk of grain into the waters of the Beiyang 北洋 irrigation system and followed it as it floated to the site of the village where it stopped in a place of excellent geomantic properties. The official settled there and named it Xihu village. Thus the Yu were the founders of the village, and they once had an ancestral hall which has since collapsed. All the temples of the village were built by the Yu and all the land was originally theirs as well. The Wangs 王 came to Xihu from Pinghai 平海. The first to come were two brothers, but now there have been six generations of the Wangs in the village. They are divided into two branches. The Dafang 大房 has over forty households, while the Xiao 小房 (small) branch has only two or three. The Zhang 张 have over ten households, and came from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 are all minor surnames, who have to depend on the bigger surnames when dealing with outsiders. Some have even changed their surnames to Yu 俞. 3. Village temples 1) Xihujing Taipingshê 西湖境太平社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Peng jiangjun 彭将军. 2) Chengzhongtang 诚忠堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 34 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the village holds a general Yuanxiao festival, and invites Sima shengwang 司马圣王 to go on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 513: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. There is dragon boat racing and opera is performed for five to six days, while movies are shown for over ten days. 6/18: The celebration of Peng jiangjun 彭将军 is held and opera is performed for two days. 10/16: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups There are over ten spirit mediums in the village but they have not received any special training. Each year the Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 
V411 Duxia 度下 1. Village settlement Duxia natural village belongs to the Shangwu Administrative Village 上梧行政村. The village population is over 500 people. Duxia village is divided into two neighborhoods called Qiandun 前墩 and Houdun 后墩. The main livelihood is handicrafts based in bamboo made for export. 2. Surname groups The Zhan 詹 make up 80% of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Lin 林. The Zhan lineage is divided into six branches, and the third branch has the most people, with around 150. There is a Zhan ancestral hall, but there is no lineage genealogy. The Lin are said to have come from Chizhu 赤柱 in Putian 莆田 city. 3. Village temples 1) Xitingjing Chenglongshê 西亭境乘龙社 is connected to the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baima xianggong 白马相公, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Zhichengtang 志诚堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Xiao daye 肖大爷. The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records seven initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Qiandun 前墩 takes the gods on procession and seals the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/15 Houdun 后墩 takes the gods on procession and seals the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The village has spirit medium 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩, but there is no specialized collective training for spirit mediums 关戒. Whoever hears the bells and drums and becomes possessed is the spirit medium. Each year two people are selected in rotation on the basis of age to be Fushou 福首. Just before the winter solstice 冬至 the divination blocks are consulted to select the day for the Lanpen rites 兰盆 (xiayuan pudu 下元普渡). A minority of the village population are Christians. Each year on 5/13 there are dragon boat races held with Xihu 西湖 village. 
A091 Jilui sijia (Jikui four jia ritual alliance) 集奎四甲 
V412 Jikui 集奎) 1. Village settlement Jikui is also called Zhijie 直街. Jikui village is located alongside the Beitang Lake 白塘湖畔. This area was part of the Zhijie dacheng pu 直街大埕铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Qiaonan 桥南 was settled in this area. The current population of Jikui village is approximately 1100 people, and it is managed by the Jikui Administrative Village 集奎行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided up according to neighborhood settlements into four jia ritual associations: Houcuo 后厝, Hougang 后港, Shangjie上街, and Xiajie下街. The main livelihood is rope making and working in factories. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four jia of Jikui were part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups It is said that the original inhabitants of Jikui village were the Kang 康, but nowadays the Zeng 曾 surname group is dominant, with about 50% of the village population. Other important surnames are the Shen 沈 and the Zheng 郑. The Zeng 曾 moved to the village from Huian 惠安 in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). At that time there were two brothers who were fishermen. Their boat sank off the coast of Putian 莆田 and they washed up on shore in Hanjiang 涵江. That night they stayed in a temple in Jikui 集奎 and the god Hei daren 黑大人 came to the brothers in a dream and told them to make fishing hooks for a living. Later their fish hooks became famous and people came to buy them by the boatload. The older brother never married, but the younger brother married and had three sons, who founded three branches of the lineage named Tian 天 (heaven), Di 地 (earth), and ren 仁 (humanity). Now the Zeng are the largest lineage in the village and have reached their tenth generation. Originally they had four ancestral halls, as well as some old ancestral chambers. Currently there are still two ancestral halls. Once they had a lineage genealogy. The ancestral tombs are in the Jiuhua mountains. 3. Village temples 1) Jikuijing Longtou lishê 集奎境龙头里社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Baigong daren 白公大人, Heigong daren 黑公大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sihai longwang 四海龙王, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Chouliang dawang 臭梁大王, Liang shengwang 量圣君. 2) Gongdeci 功德祠 is said to have been built in the Song. It was re-dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 in the Ming. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 and Huibai cishi 慧白慈师 (this monk 
A091 Jikui four jia ritual alliance gained merit (which is the name of the temple) when he rebuilt the temple after it was destroyed by pirates in the Ming), Leishen Puhua tianzun 雷身 普化天尊, Weituo 韦陀, Zhao Gaoming 赵公明, Lu Wenhui 卢文辉, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, Lin Zhenming 林贞明, Zhang Hongdu 张洪都, Chen Zhida 陈智达, and Liang Puyao 梁普耀. This temple preserves a stele composed in Wanli 16 (1588) entitled 重修涵江新桥记 (Record of the restoration of the New Bridge in Hanjiang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:183, No. 161). The SSCDCB, 1992:7 records 371 initiates. 3) Longjiangtan 龙江坛 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5) Longxingmiao 龙兴庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军and Wu daren 乌大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 and Hei daren 黑大人 are taken out on a procession around the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 8/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/15: The celebration of Hei daren 黑大人. 9/15: The celebration of Sihai longwang 四海龙王. 10/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation on the basis of age. There are four or five spirit mediums, but possession is spontaneous and never a sure thing. Once the drums and the chimes sound whoever becomes possessed is the spirit medium. 
A092 Hougong erjia (Hougong two jia ritual alliance) 后宫二甲 Hougong is also called Houliugong 后刘宫 and Houtou 后头. The village is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Houliugong Xiacaipu 后刘宫下蔡舖 of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Qing, the village of Houliugong was settled, and it has now divided into two large settlements called Hougong 后宫 and Houxue 后学. Both are managed 
A092 Hougong two jia ritual alliance by the Hougong Administrative Village 后宫行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided according to settlements into two jia ritual associations. The Dunangong 度南宫 temple, located in Houxue 后学 village, is the main temple of the two jia ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year on lunar 1/16 a general Yuanxiao fesitval is held, and the two jia join in a common procession of the gods of the temple. 
V413 Hougong 后宫 1. Village settlement The village of Hougong has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is construction work in cement, carpentry, and scrap metal. 2. Surname groups The main surmane groups are the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Cheng 程. The Huang make up the majority of the population, with over 300 people. 3. Village temples 1) Taixingtang 太兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the gods of Dunangong 度南 宫 are invited on a procession through Hougong village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Hougong village, together with Houxue village 后学, celebrate the end of the Yuanxiao festival. They invite the spirit mediums of Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 to go into trance and go on procession through their villages, and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 
V414 Houxue 后学 1. Village settlement The village of Houxue has a population of approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is overseeing construction projects. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Huang 黄. The Huang moved to Houxue in the Wanli period (1573–1620) from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江. According to legend, there were five brothers who opened a school in the village. Early on, the lineage divided into two branches, and now there are six branches, namely the first branch 头房 or Fu 福, the second branch 二房 Shou 寿, the third branch 三房 Ji 吉, and the fourth, fifth, and sixth branches. The Ji branch (third) is the largest with over 400 people. Originally there were three lineage halls in the village, but now only one survives. Formerly there were lineage genealogies 族谱 and worship registers 祭薄, but these are all gone. 3. Village temples 1) Dunangong 度南宫 contains the altars of the Qinganshê 庆安社 and the Qingfushê 庆福社. The main gods are Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Tuzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (Lu Ban 鲁班) . 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, the gods of Dunangong 度南宫 are invited on a procession through Hougong village to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Houxue village, together with Hougong village 后宫, celebrate the end of the Yuanxiao festival. They invite the spirit mediums of Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 to go into trance and go on procession through their villages, and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Dunangong 度南宫 and Shuxingmiao 书兴庙 each has a single spirit medium who organizes the Yuanxiao procession, and the tanban 坛班 altar association. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to host the rituals of the year. 
A093 Donting sijia (Dongting four jia ritual alliance) 东亭四甲 
V415 Dongting 东亭) 1. Village settlement Dongting is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Xiliugong Xiacaipu 西刘宫下蔡铺 (police/ defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Qing, the two villages of Xiacai 下蔡 and Dongting 东亭 were settled in this area. Today they have merged into a single village, with a population of approximately 700. Dongting is part of the Hougong Administrative Village 后宫行政村. The temple ritual Dongting four jia ritual alliance system is divided on the basis of settlement or neighborhoods into four jia 四甲 ritual associations: Houdun 后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Houcuo 后厝, and Qiancuo 前厝. The main livelihood comes from working in construction. 2. Surname groups The Cai 蔡 are the main surname groups, with over 300 people. There are also the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Xie 解 surname groups. The Cai moved to Dongting from Linchuan 灵川 and have divided into three lineage branches, of which the third has the most people. There is a Cai ancestral hall and on regular occasions joint worship of the ancestors takes place there. 3. Village temples 1) Dongtingjing Xixingshê 东亭境西兴社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Xinglingdian 兴灵殿 was rebuilt in Qianlong 20 (1755). The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Shuaifu Shidaren 帅府 士大人, Duchayuan Gouyushi 都察院苟御史, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, and Fanghuo dadi 放火大帝. 3) Zhuchan shuyuan 珠缠书院 was restored in Daoguang 11 (1831). The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗 星君. 4) Damafu 大妈府 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 5) Sanjiaoci 三教祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 6) Fotang 佛堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the gods of the Xinglingdian 兴灵殿 on a procession around the village boundaries. On 1/17 the gods of the Xixingshê 西兴社 on a procession around the village boundaries. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. 2/3: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration of Shi daren 士大人 is organized by Houdun 后墩. Opera is performed for two days. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and earth 天地 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 7/7: The celebration of Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 7/15: The celebration of Gou yushi 苟御史 is organized by Qiancuo 前厝. Opera is performed for two days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Houdun 后墩. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Houdun 后墩. Opera is performed for two days. 8/21: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. 9/4: The celebration of Fanghuo dadi 放火大帝 is organized by Houcuo 后厝. Opera is performed for two days. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. Opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The celebration of Tianjie guniang 天界姑娘 is organized by Qiandun 前墩. 5. Ritual groups There is one older spirit medium 神童 and four new mediums. They are trained in guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions, which have been held twice, each time for two or three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to these rituals. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation. 5/15: 
A094 Yangwei liucun (Yangwei six-village ritual alliance) 洋尾六村 The six village alliance of Yangwei is located along the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Yangwei Tangbianpu 洋尾塘边舖 (police/defense unit) of the Xiaoyili sub-canton 孝义里. In the Ming the village of Yangwei 洋尾 was settled, and in the Qing the village of Tangbian 塘边 separated off. Currently there are a total of six natural villages in this area: Dongdun 东墩, Lijiao 李角, Xidun 西墩, Houtou 后头, Tangbian 塘边, and Xilin 西林, all of which are managed by the Yangwei Administrative Village 洋尾行政村. The overall population of the ritual alliance is over 3000 people. The Youshengguan 佑圣堂 temple of Dongdu 东墩 village, and the Lingzhengong 灵镇宫 of Lijiao 李角 village, are the main temples of the six-village alliance. Each year on lunar 1/26, Xuantian shangdi of Youshengguan 佑圣堂玄天上帝 and Yanggong taishi of Lingzhengong 灵镇宫杨公太师 are carried in a procession through the six villages of the alliance. Every ten 
A094 Yangwei six-village ritual alliance years, on a day determined by divination, Xuantian shangdi is taken on a procession around the villages bordering the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. 1. Youshengtang 佑圣堂: According to the Li lineage genealogy 李氏族谱, this temple was originally a Buddhist hall built in Ming Hongwu 5 (1372) by Third place examination winner Huang Yang 黄阳. In Hongwu 24 (1391), a District Magistrate Li, who had served in Yongzhuo Prefecture Qiyang district 永州府祁阳县令李龙公 brought back the statue of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 from that district to Putian 莆田 and worshipped it in the Youshengtang. He also donated land to the temple and expanded the building, so that the god and the Buddha could both dwell in the same place. According to another legend the god statue was lodged in the Buddha hall temporarily while an ancestral hall was being built, but once the new hall was ready, the god refused to move, and so stayed alongside the Buddha. During the Movement to Destroy the Four Olds the temple was demolished. In 1970 it was rebuilt. On the main altar there are Rulaifo 如来佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and in the lower altar in the central hall are Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. In the left hand hall are Yuanshu 元暑 and Weituo 韦陀; in the right hand hall are Puxing 普行 and Jialan 伽蓝. On both sides in additional halls are the Eighteen Luohan 罗汉. In a hall further to the left is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平 and Zhou Cang 周仓. In a hall to the far right is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tuzhu mingwang 土主明王. The processions of the Youshengtan 佑圣堂巡游仪式: Each year on 1/26, Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 goes on a procession through the six-fold ritual alliance 巡游六境. Every ten years in the 10th lunar month the god is carried in an special procession through the six-fold ritual alliance. The god’s birthday celebrations are held on lunar 3/3 and opera is performed for three days. This event is organized by the Temple Management Committee, and funds are raised from the entire six-village alliance on a per capita basis. Lingzhengong 灵镇宫 was rebuilt in 1983. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫 人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and to the right are the Sanshiliu gongpo 三十六 宫婆. In the front of the temple are Daye 大爷 and Tudigong 土地神. The processions of the Lingzhengong: Each lunar 1/26, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师 and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 go on a procession through the six village alliance 巡游六境. Birthday celebrations of the gods: 4/26 is the celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师; 5/5 is the celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神; 7/7 is the celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and 8/21 is the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for three days. These events are organized by the temple management committee, and fund are raised from the six village alliance on a per capita basis. Historically, the Li lineage of Yangwei village 洋尾李氏were a prominent local lineage with many successful examination graduates. In the Ming, they produced two Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twelve Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 22 (1486), the Regional Inspector巡按御史 set up a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial arch in honor of the Li lineage 李 in Yangwei village. In Ming Hongzhi 1 (1488) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Buyun 步云牌坊 (Pacing the Clouds) memorial archway to further honor the Li lineage 李. Finally in Ming Hongshi 12 (1499) the Li themselves erected a memorial archway inscribed with Zhigan Yufang 制 干余芳 (continuing fragrance of Li Zhigan 李制干). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the six villages of Yangwei were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V416 Dongdun 东墩 1. Village settlement Dongdun village was once a tidal flat. In the Song, Li Zhigan 李制干 built dikes around this area and reclaimed the land from the sea. Currently the village has a population of over 922 people. Dongdun village is divided into Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiacuo 下厝 and Qiaotoujiao 桥头 角 neighborhoods. The main livelihood is farming. Many villagers work in construction and carpentry. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the major surname group. There are also over 100 people surnamed Lin 林. There are also some minor surnames including the Sun 孙, Yang 杨, Tian 田, Dai 戴, Yu 俞, Xie 谢 and the Guan关. The Huang came from Huangxia 黄霞, and now have over 1300 people. The Huang lineage was founded by Ancestor Lanting 兰亭公 who is said to have had six sons. One moved away to Huangshi and those that stayed on in Yangwei divided into five lineage branches. The Huang live mostly in the three villages of Dongdun 东墩, Xidun 西墩 and Xilin 西林. The Huang lineage ancestral hall 黄氏大祠堂 was converted into a school during the Republican period. The other lineage branch ancestral halls have also fallen down or been taken over as production brigade headquarters. The ancestral tombs are in Huangxia 黄霞. The Lin 林 came from Xiake下柯 near Putian 莆田 and have 26 households in the village. They are divided into two lineage branches and there is a ancestral house that is kept up by both branches. At Yuanxiao the entire lineage gathers there to worship their ancestors. There is also the Lizhiganci (Shrine) 李制干祠 in Dongdun 东墩, which was first built in the Southern Song, and was rebuilt in the Ming, and which covers 380 sq. meters. This shrine is a Putian City cultural preservation site. The shrine has a plaque written by the Southern Song Jinshi Wang Jinzhi 王进之 as well as a stele composed in 1526 by the Minister of Justice Lin Jun 刑部尚书林俊 entitled 永思堂记 (Record of the Hall of Eternal Recollection) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:153, No. 131), and another stele composed by Li Tingwu 李廷梧 in Hongzhi 12 (1499) entitled 李氏重修东 墩祠记 (Record of the repairs to the Dongdun Li ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:165, No. 143). The texts of several other inscriptions concerning the Li Zhigan shrine have survived (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:17, 19, 163; No. 18, 21, 141). 3. Village temples 1) Jufushê 聚福社 is the overall main shê-altar of the Huang lineage of Yangwei 洋尾黄氏总社, and it is shared with Xilin village 西林. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On the left is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and on the right Linshui furen 临水夫人 and Chen Banye 陈班爷. 2) Dongxingmiao 东兴庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Guanfuan 观福庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Fuqingtang 福庆堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and belongs to Dingcuo 顶厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. 6) Jianmingtang 建明堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 a procession is held in the village. On 1/13 palm sedan chairs with miniature statues of the gods are taken on procession 摆棕轿. On 1/9 the Huang lineage 黄氏 celebrates Yuanxiao 元宵. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the six-fold alliance management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/29: Xiayuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Formerly, as many as five or seven Daoist ritual masters were invited to conduct the rites, currently only a single Daoist master is invited. During the ritual, water lanterns are set to float from boats on the irrigation canals. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 11/2: Opera is performed for two days at the Lower Prime pudu 下元普度. 5. Ritual Groups There is one spirit medium 神童 in the village, but he is over 60 years old. The village Three in One temple is called the Zhongyitang 中一堂. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Guanfuan 观福庵, where Buddhist rites are performed, and various peoples’ spirit tablets are worshipped. 
V417 Lijiao 李角 1. Village settlement Lijiao village has a population of approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is farming, though many villagers are in the construction business. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 are the dominant surname group. Other minor surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Li 李 are the descendants of Li Zhigan 李制干, and there is a Lishi Great Lineage hall 李氏大宗祠 in the village. This hall was first built in the Ming, and was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 28 (1763). The hall covers 350 sq. meters. The hall preserves a stone inscription composed in 1489 by Minister of the Justice Peng Shao 彭韶 (from nearby Zhenjiang) entitled 白塘李氏重修先祠碑 (Stele recording the repair of the ancestral shrine of the Li lineage of Baitang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:116, No. 103); as well as another inscription from Qianlong 28 (1763) entitled 重建大宗祠碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Great Lineage hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:245, No. 211). There are other ancestral halls and shrines in the village as well, including the Zhoumuci 州牧祠, a shrine set up in the Qianlong period in honor of Vice Magistrate of Zhili Department, Li Guangwen 直隶州司马李光文. This too is a large building, covering 338 sq. meters. The shrine contains two Qianlong plaques recording imperial honors. There is also the Qiyangci 祁阳祠 built in the Ming in honor of Li Long 湖广永州府祁阳县令李龙, which covers some 200 sq. meters. The Li lineage has preserved many additional historical items, including a 1516 stele composed by Investigating Censor Zhou Xuan 监察御使清江周宣 from nearby Qingjiang village. A number of memorial archways have been preserved in the village, including a Song dynasty memorial archway in honor of Li Tingyao 李延耀佥判第坊 and two Ming dynasty memorial archways. In addition, the tomb of Li Zhigan, the 李制干墓, dating to Song Chunxi 9 (1182) and located in the Chanji Mountains of Changtai 常太镇长基山, is visited on lunar 9/11 by representatives of the Li lineage who conduct rites at the tomb. The Li lineage has preserved two genealogies, one is the 白塘李氏族谱 Baitang Lishi zupu dating to 1721; the other is a more recent edition. 3. Village temples 1) Kuilongshê 魁龙社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Xingzhengtan 兴正坛 is dedicated to Ou daren 欧大人. This temple was first built in the Ming Hongzhi period (1488–1521). The temple was rebuilt in 1994. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtufuren 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 of Linzhengong 灵镇宫 are taken on a procession throughout their own village. On 1/15, there is a fire walking rite 踩火. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the sixfold alliance management committee. Five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/3: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a date determined by spirit writing and is conducted once every three years. Marionette plays are performed. 
V418 Xidun 西墩 1. Village settlement The village of Xidun has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, though many villagers are in the construction business. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the dominant surname group with 289 people. There are also a minority of Li 李 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jufu shushê 聚福书社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On the left and right are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the villagers go on a procession in their own village. On 1/26 the village takes part in the general procession of the six-fold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the six-fold alliance management committee. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V419 Houtou 后头 1. Village settlement Houtou village is also known as Xialou 霞楼. The village population is over 400 people living in 106 households. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. There are also seven households surnamed Gao 高, along with some households surnamed Wu 吴, Li 李, Qi 祁 and Shê 佘. The Chen are divided into two main lines, the Yingshui Chen 颍水陈 and the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈. The former line has lived in the village for over ten generations, and has divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Jiafu zushê 嘉福祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 2) Bujintan 布金坛 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left and right are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Baigong daren 白公大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 3) Yaokun shuyuan 瑶琨书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On a day early in the ninth lunar month, as determined by divination, an Assembly of the Dao 会道 ritual is held with the participation of many nearby Three in One temples and their initiates. 4) Sanqingdian 三清殿 is located in the village. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Kanggong yuanshuai 康公 元帅 is invited to the village to go on procession. Spirit mediums “pluck the flames” 神童踩火. On 1/21 opera is performed and on 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected to organize the ritual activities of the year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/17: The celebration for Baigong daren 白公大人. 8/15: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is the Yaokun shuyuan 瑶琨书院. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V420 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement The village of Tangbian has a population of 700 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. In 1939, the troops of the Nanbei Army 南北军 burned down the village as they passed through the area. The foundations of an ancestral house renowned throughout the Hanjiang area called the Sanjiancuo 三间 厝 can still be seen in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Chen 陈. The are also a few households surnamed Lin 林. The Chen are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian city. The Chen lineage ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 was burned down by the soldiers of the Nanbei Army. 3. Village temples 1) Sanqijing Yiqingshê 三奇境仪清社 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baima shenghou 白马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. To the left: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the right: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人. Front altar: Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Sanwei daye 三位大爷 and Erwei daye 二位二爷. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyijiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 there is a procession within the village, and the spirit mediums of neighboring villages are invited to pick flower-flames (undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of massive Roman candles) 神童采花. On 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22 and 8/24: The celebration of the gods of Hongrenci 弘仁祠. 7/16: The celebration of the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each time opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites are performed on a time determined by spirit writing 扶乩, once every three years. Marionette plays are performed. 5. Ritual Groups This village has spirit medium 神童 who can transmit the messages of the gods in spirit writing 扶乩. 
V421 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement The village of Xilin has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the main surname with around 412 people, and there are also a few Lin 林 households. 3. Village temples 1) Jufushê 聚福社 is in Dongdun 东墩, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Baolintang 宝林堂 is dedicated to Ma daren 马大人. 3) Mingdetang 明德堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 there is a procession within the village. On 1/26 the village takes part in the six-village collective procession 六境总巡游. This event is organized by the six-fold ritual alliance temple management committee. Five Daoist masters are invited to perform a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The celebration of Ma daren 马大人. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is the Mingdetang 明德堂. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A095 Zhenqian qijing (Zhenqian sevenfold ritual alliance) 镇前七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Zhenqian is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白塘湖. This area was part of the Zhenqian xiaohupu 镇前孝户铺 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. In the Song, Ninghai town 宁海镇 had already been settled in this area, and in the Ming the village of Zhenqian 镇前 was settled. In the Qing, the village of Xiaohu 孝户 separated off. Currently the villages of the area are managed by Zhenqian 镇前 and Zhenjiang Administrative Villages 镇江行政村. The temple ritual system is divided primarily according to lineage and settlement into seven ritual territories. The Fushangong 福山宫 temple and the Xinanshê 新安社, both located in Zhenqian 镇前 village, are the main temple and the founding shê-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual territories in the alliance goes to Fushangong to invite the gods to their home temples. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold alliance of Zhenqian was part of the black banner alliance. 
V422 Zhenqian 镇前 1. Village settlement The village of Zhenhai has a population of over 3000 people. The village is divided into several neighborhoods, including Dalu Zhengqian sevenfold ritual alliance 大路, Qianshê 前社, Jiangtouwei 江头尾, Qiaotou 桥头, etc. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surnames groups are the Shê 佘, the Lin 林, the Li 李, the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Weng 翁, and the Fang 方. The Shê 佘 make up almost half the total population. It is said the ancestor of the Shê in Zhenqiao 镇前 had been en route to taking up a position as district magistrate in Chaozhou 潮州知府 when his second son fell ill. He stayed at Shêpu in Hangjiang 涵江佘埔. The third generation of the Shê then moved to Zhenhai. By now, the Shê have reached their 21st generation and have an overall population of nearly 3000 people. There is a great lineage hall and several branch lineage halls. The ancestral graves are in Shangshepu 上佘铺 and each year at the Chongyang (9/9) festival the graves are swept. Other groups of the Shê lineage in Jiangkou Gangxia 江口港下 and Xitianwei Houzhuo 西天尾后卓 go separately to sweep the tombs at Qingming 清明 and at Dongzhi 冬至. The village also has a Wu Lineage ancestral hall. A stone inscription composed in Hongzhi 15 (1502) entitled 圣墩吴氏新建祠堂记 (Record of the newly constructed Wu ancestral hall at Sacred Mound) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:131, No. 112) is about this hall. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenqianjing Fushangong 镇前境福山宫 contains the altar of the Xinanshê 新安社 and is the main temple 总宫 and founding shê altar 祖社 of the three village alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天 元帅, Huye 虎爷, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 2) Zhenqianjing Daxishê 镇前境大西社 is connected to the Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙 and includes the Wuxiangong 五显宫, the Tianhougong 天后宫, and the Jiuchenggong 九成宫. This temple is in Dalu 大路 and was recently rebuilt. The complex includes four temples in a row. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Guangzhou pingwang 广周平王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Hu taibao 胡太保, Yang taibao 杨太保, Bihou daifu 毕侯大夫, and Zhou daye 周大爷. 3) Hongmingdian 宏明殿 is in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 and branched off from Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙. The main god is Guangzhou pingwang 广周平王, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Hu taibao 胡太保 and Yang taibao 杨太保. 4) Longxingtan 隆兴坛 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Huang Cang 黄仓, and Bai Cang 白仓. 5) Yunlong shuyuan 云龙书院 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 6) Jiwutang 集午堂 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 was built in Daoguang 12 (1832), and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lu Wenhui 卢文辉, Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Hufa jialan 护法伽蓝. 7) Hongrendong 弘仁洞 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Chen Hong haier 陈洪孩儿. 8) Yunyuelou 云月楼 in Jiangtouwei 江头尾 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮and Jialan 伽蓝. 9) Changshoutang 长寿堂 includes the altars of the Xinanshê 新安社, the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Zaiqianshê 在前社. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Jiazi xingjun 甲子星君, Gonggong daren 龚公大人, Peng daye 彭太爷, Zou jiangjun 邹将军. 10) Yanshoutang 延寿堂 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 and Cai daye 蔡大爷. 11) Jurendong 居仁洞 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷 and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Zuoyou erye 左右二爷. 12) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 in Qianshê 前社 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三 一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992: 9 records forty initiates. 13) Hongshanci 弘善祠 in Qiaotou 桥头 has a Yandun yizhong 烟墩义塚 (tomb of the righteous heroes). The temple is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大 爷, Huang daye 黄大爷, and Li daye 李大爷. Secondary gods include Chen Hong haier 陈洪孩儿. 14) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 9 records seven initiates. 15) Jiangxiang temple 吉祥寺 was located north of the Ninghai bridge. It was originally attached to the Ninghai bridge and was built in Yuan Yuantong 2 (1334). In Ming Jianwen 2 (1400) Buddist monk Xiangjiang 湘江 rebuilt the temple. The temple was rebuilt again in 1979 (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Yao 姚 take the incense burners of the Xinganshê 兴安社 and the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11 the Dalu 大路 Daxishê 大西社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12 the Zheng 郑 of Qianshê 前社 and the Lin 林 of Xingyishê 兴义社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Weng of Zushê 翁姓祖社 and the community of Xizhoushê 西周社 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Shê of Sanzhou 三洲佘姓 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22 a general Yuanxiao festival is held in Qianshê 前社, and the spirit mediums 神童 of Changshoutang 长寿堂 are invited to go on a procession around the borders of the community and to seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/24, the spirit mediums 神童 of Lingshunmiao 灵顺庙 are invited to do the same. On 2/3–4 the Hongmingdian 宏明殿 of Jiangtouwei 江头尾 invites all the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to caihua “pick flower-flames 采花” (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of a Roman candle). Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Villagers request incense fire 香火 from Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 of Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong mountain. This is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 2/22: The celebration of Li daye 李大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 3/15: The celebration of Xie daye 谢大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by Dalu 大路. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dalu 大路. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 5/5: The celebration of Wuxian dashen 五显大帝 is organized by Dalu 大路; the celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 6/6: The celebration of Zhouguang pingwang 周广平王 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized separately by Jiangtouwei 江头尾 and Qianshê 前社. 8/23: The celebration of Gong daren 龚大人 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 10/15: The celebration of Huang daye 黄大爷 is organized by Jiangtouwei 江头尾. 10/19: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Daxishê 大西社 is organized by Dalu 大路. 10/21: The celebration of Jianzi xingjun 甲子星君 is organized by Qianshê 前社. 5. Ritual Groups Zhenqian has a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and assistants, but does not conduct guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. On 10/15, Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed separately by Three in One Scripture Masters and initiates of the Hongrendong 弘仁洞, Hongshanci 弘善祠, and the Jurendong 居仁洞. 
V423 Zhenjiang 镇江 1. Village settlement The village of Zhenjiang has a population of over 3000 people. The village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qihangqian 棋行前, Dongzhijiao 东至角, and Zhanghuang 张黄. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shê 佘, the Zhang 张, and the Huang 黄. The Shê make up about half of the village population, and are related to the Shê of Zhenhai 镇海. 3. Village temples 1) Zhenjiangjing Shoushangong 镇江境寿山宫 contains the altar of the Fushoushê 福寿社 and is located in Dongzhijiao 东至角. This temple branched off from the main Fushangong 福山宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wuhu jialou 五虎伽罗, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Taiyi xiangu 太乙 仙姑, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Ma jiangjun 马将军, Jia jiangjun 贾将军, Xiehu dajiang 谢虎大将, and Hongrendong sanwei daye 弘仁洞三位大爷. 2) Zhenjiangjing Lianzhongdong 镇江境莲中洞 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and was built in Guangxu 32 (1906). This temple is said to be the overall main temple for the black banner village alliance of the Hanjiang area 涵江 乌旗总宫. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Leisheng Puhua tianzun 雷声普化天尊, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng daye 彭大爷, and Deng daye 邓大爷. 3) Dexingtan 德兴坛 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhou daye 周大爷, Peng daye 彭大爷, and Deng daye 邓大爷. 4) Sanzhou shuyuan 三洲书院 contains the Fushou shushê 福寿书社 and belongs to the Zhang 张. The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 5) Xianyuelou 先月楼 is in Dongzhijiao 东至角 and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is in Dongzhijiao 东至角 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7) Longxingdong 隆兴洞 is in Qihangqian 棋行前 and is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. Secondary gods include Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Huang cang 黄仓, and Bai cang 白仓. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 the Zhang 张 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 the Huang 黄 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫 on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the Shê of Sanzhoushê 三洲社佘姓 take the incense burners of the Fushangong 福山宫on a procession to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 Qihangqiang 棋行前 invites Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on a procession around the village boundaries. On 1/23 Dongzhijiao 东至角 holds a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵, and invites the spirit mediums 神童 of Shoushangong 寿山宫 to go on a procession around the village boundaries, and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/27 Qihangqian’s Lianzhongdong 棋行前莲中洞 invites the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to “pick flower-flames” 神童 采花 (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles) Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/12: The celebration of Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将 is held. 1/19: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their ancestral hall. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 3/15: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their ancestral hall 祠堂. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. The celebration of Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. Each year with an intercalary seventh lunar month Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 goes on a procession through the entire ritual territory. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Qihangqian 棋行前. 10/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 is organized by the village as a whole. 10/15: The Shê 佘 invite the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fushoushe 福寿社 to their lineage ancestral hall 祠堂. 11/4: The celebration of Xiehu dajiang 谢虎大将 is held. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhenjiang village has an active tanban 坛班 altar association of some forty spirit mediums and assistants. They have carried out guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to their ages. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by Three in One scripture masters. 5/15: 
V424 Xiaohu 孝户 1. Village settlement Xiaohu village is a part of the Zhenqian Administrative Village 镇前行政村. The village of Xiaohu has a population of over 600 people. Originally the main livelihood was farming, but today the major source of income is the preparation and sale of spirit money for ritual uses. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in the village are the Cai 蔡, the Lin 林, the Li 李, and the Wu 吴. The Cai make up a third of the village population. They claim to be descendants of Cai Xiang 蔡襄 who moved to Xiaohu in the thirteenth generation. There is a Cai lineage ancestral hall 蔡氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Ningjiangjing Xinglonggong 宁江境兴隆宫 contains the altar of the Fushoushê 福寿社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taibao zhongjun 太保中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Chongxingtang 重兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yushu dadi 玉枢大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Chongshengtang 崇圣堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帥. 4) Hongrenci 弘仁祠 is dedicated to Xie daye 谢大爷, Huang daye 黄大爷 and Li daye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the incense burners of the shêaltar are taken on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19 the overall Yuanxiao festival is celebrated. The spirit mediums 神童 of Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 go on a procession around the village boundaries, and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Nanhu village invites the spirit mediums 神童 of all the neighboring black banner alliance villages to “pick flower-flames” 采花 (compete in feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/11: The celebration of Taibao zhongjun 太保中军. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 6/11: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xiaohu village has a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their ritual assistants, but they have never held a guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session. The Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation on the basis of age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by the initiates of the Hongrenci 弘仁 祠, and funds are raised by voluntary contributions. 
A096 Nancheng sishê (Nanchang four shê ritual alliance) 南埕四社 
V425 Nancheng 南埕 1. Village settlement Nancheng is located alongside the Baitang Lake 白 塘湖. This region was part of the Nanchengpu 南埕埔 (police/defense unit) of Xiaoyili 孝义里 sub-canton. The area around Nancheng was originally all Nanchang four-shê ritual alliance sea-salt fields and tidal mudflats. After the construction of the Jishan dike in the Qing, 13,600 mu (over 2000 acres) of land was reclaimed from the sea, and the village gradually was settled. Currently there are some 2000 residents of the village, living in two neighborhoods, Shangdun 上墩 and Xiadun 下墩. In term of ritual organization, the village is divided by surname groups into four shê altars. The three main surnames are the Hu 胡, Cheng 程, and Weng 翁. Another group is made up of the Fang 方 and the Li 李 and other minor surnames. Each of these four groups has its own shê altar 四社. The main livelihood formerly was in the sea-salt fields but nowadays most people work in construction and virtual every family has a carpentry workshop. A minority are involved in commerce in Putian or Hanjiang 涵江. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, all of the four shê of Nancheng village were members of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three surnames of Hu 胡, Cheng 程, and Weng 翁 are the dominant surname groups but there are also several minor surname groups including the Fang 方 and the Li 李. There were originally a few Lin 林 and Zheng 郑 households but they have moved away. The Hu are the largest surname group with over 1200 people. According to legend, there was once a Jiangxi 江西 official surnamed Hu who moved to Putian to take up office, and his descendants lived in Nancheng. Later the lineage formed four branches, and the Hu are already into their twelfth generation. The second branch at some point merged with the first branch, so that there are now three lineage branches. There was originally a lineage hall, but it was torn down. The Cheng moved to Nancheng from Huangshi Zhelang village 黄石遮浪 and now have 480 descendants. They are divided into five branches. The Weng are the Liugui Weng 六桂翁氏. Their founding ancestor was Weng Chulian 翁处廉, who moved to Nancheng village from Beigao 北高. The Weng now number about 300 people, and are divided into three lineage branches. They are related to the Weng of Huangshi Qingzhong 黄 石清中, where their lineage genealogy can be consulted. The Li 李 moved to Nancheng from Yangwei 洋尾. The origins of the Fang 方 are unclear. 3. Village temples 1) Nanjiangjing Yian lishê 南江境义安里社 belongs to the Cheng 程, Weng 翁, and Hu 胡 lineages. The subsidiary branch shê-altars are the Cheng’s Yi’an zhongshê 义安中社, the Weng’s Yian dongshê 翁姓义 安东社 and the Fang’s Yiqingshê 义清社. The main gods of the Yi’an lishê 义安里社 are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 (belonging to the Weng 翁), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (belonging to the Fang 方), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (belonging to the Cheng 程) and Puji shenghou 普济圣候 (also belonging to the Cheng 程). 2) Yian xishê 义安西社 belongs to the Hu 胡. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yiqingshê 义清社 belongs to the Fang 方. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Buzheng shijun 布政使君. 4) Sanzhengong 三真宫 (the overall main temple of the village 总宫) has a saying about it which goes “Before you leave Nancheng village, first go to the Sanzhen temple 三真宫”, which locals take to mean that even before the temple was built the god was already there. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 5) Nanjiangjing Xinglongtan 南江境兴隆坛 belongs to the Cheng 程 of Xiadun 下墩. Legend has it that this is the second oldest temple in Putian, and each year with an intercalary seventh month the gods of the temple go on procession throughout the village. The main gods are Tianqian shengmu 天 前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Yawen dutong dashen 押瘟都统大神, and Xiling Kongfu daren 西 岭孔府大人. 6) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xingling dashen 行令大神, Hu yuanshuai 胡元帅, Hu guniang 胡姑娘, Chen xiannü 陈仙女, Li furen 李夫人, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. 7) Xianrenci 显仁祠 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Erye 二爷 and Daye 大爷. 8) Chalitang 察理堂 is dedicated to Li daren 李大人. 9) Yingshuiting 潆水亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天. 10) Yanshouge 延寿阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 11) Yumingtang 玉明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 12) Nanjiangjing Hexingtang 南江境合兴堂 belongs to the Hu of Shangdun 上墩胡 and branched off from the Beijidian 北极殿. This temple is commonly called the Tanhuafu 探花府, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Wuxian Ma yuanshuai 五显马元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 13) Nanjiang shuyuan 南江书院 belongs to the entire village and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 14) Qingyundian 青云殿 belongs to the Cheng 程 and was built in the Xianfeng period (1851–1861), and rebuilt in 1997. The main god is Yuansheng yuanshuai 袁圣元帅 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅). Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 15) Tongshengtang 通圣堂 branched off in the Ming Wanli period (1573– 1620) from the Huangshi Taihuci 黄石太湖祠, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 16) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 17) Yumingtang 玉明堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 18) Donglai temple 东来寺 was built in Kangxi 47 (1708) by Buddhist Monk Shenran 深然. (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the Weng 翁 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and his spirit medium 神童 on a procession and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/10 the Fang 方 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14 the 程 take Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Gangong yuanshuai 干公 元帅, Wuxian yuashuai 五显元帅 and their spirit mediums in sedan chairs on a procession around the village. On 2/5 a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, organized by the Hu 胡. The spirit mediums of neighboring villages are invited to “pick flower-flames” 神童采花. (undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candles). Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by the Cheng 程 and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for three days. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡 and opera is performed for three days. 4/14: The celebration of Xingling dashen 行令大神. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by the Weng 翁, and opera is performed for two days. 5/6: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Hu 胡. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 5/17: The celebration of Hu gunniang 胡姑娘. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 6/28: The celebration of Yawen dutong dashen 押瘟都统大神 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 7/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yian lishê 义安里社 is organized by the Cheng 程, the Weng 翁, and the Fan 方 lineages all together, and opera is performed for three days. 7/6: The celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the surname of Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the Fang 方, and opera is performed for one day. the celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 8/20: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡, and opera is performed for three days. 9/5: The celebration of 五显马元帅 is organized by the Hu 胡, and opera is performed for two days. 10/18: The celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is organized by the Cheng 程, and opera is performed for two days. 11/19: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yiqingshê 仪清社 is organized by the Fang 方, and marionette plays are performed . 11/21: The celebration of Chenxiannü 陈仙女 is organized by Xiadun 下墩 and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The numbers of spirit mediums is not predetermined, but sometimes as many as twenty men 5/ be possessed. At Yuanxiao and at god’s birthdays, one to five Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rituals 做醮. On 10/29 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. This ritual is organized by the temple management committee, who invite seven Buddhist monks and arrange for marionette plays and offerings. 8/2: 
A097 Sihua sanshê (Sihua three shê ritual alliance) 泗华三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Sihua is located on the northern bank of the Sihua Weir 泗华陂北端. This area was part of the Yanshou yangxipu 延寿洋 西铺 (police/defense unit) of Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton. In the Ming the village of Shihua 使华 was settled, and in the Qing it branched out into the villages of Xiazheng 下郑 and Kongzhaizhuang 孔宅庄. These villages are now managed by the Sihua Administrative Village 泗华行政村. The temple ritual system is primarily divided into the three she-altars of Dingcuo 顶厝, Xiazheng 下郑 and Kongli 孔里. The Xian zushê 溪安祖社 temple, located in Xiazheng 下郑 village, is the main temple of the Sihua three shê alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师. Formerly, each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each shê would go the Xian zushê to invite the gods to go on a procession to each ritual territory, but these collective processions and rites have not been revived. 
V426 Dingcuo 顶厝 1. Village settlement The population of Dingcuo is approximately 500 people. 
A097 Sihua sanshê ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李and the Wei 魏. 3. Village temples Xian shangshê 溪安上社 was built during the Republican period, and renovated after the founding of the PRC. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Wangfu yuanjun 王府元君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 the gods of Xian shangshê 溪安上社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V427 Xiazheng 下郑 1. Village settlement The population of Xiazheng is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xiao 肖. The Xiao originates from the Xiao mountains 萧山 of Zhejiang 浙江. They migrated here from Xiaocuo 肖厝 of Huian 惠安 during the late Qing. They are divided into eight branches, and originally had an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Xian zushê 溪安祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公 太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 2) Deqingci 德庆祠: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Xiangxianci 香贤祠 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. SJCDCB, 1992: 6 records twenty-two initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 the gods of Xian zushê 溪安祖社 are taken on a procession around the village. On 2/2 the rites of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) are celebrated. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃. 5/3: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V428 Kongli 孔里 1. Village settlement Kongli was originally known as Kongzhaizhuang 孔 宅庄. Kongli village includes Kongli 孔里 and Beipu 陂埔, and was originally known as the Kong Tianzhuang 孔氏田庄 of Hanjiang 涵江. The population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Wulongmiao 五龙庙, Xidongshê 溪东社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Beipusi Buddhist temple 陂埔寺 is located in Beipu 陂埔 (PTZJZCG, 1992:201). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the gods of Wulongmiao 五 龙庙 and Xidongshê 五龙庙 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/08: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On this occasion, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A098 Yangxi sijia (Yangxi four jia ritual alliance) 洋西四甲 The four jia ritual alliance of Yangxi is located within the Sihua Weir irrigation system 泗华陂, near the mountainous western edge of the northern irrigated plain. This region was part of the Yanshou yangxipu 延寿洋西铺 (police/defense unit) of the Changtaili 常泰里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the Yangxi four jia ritual alliance village of Beichen 北辰 was settled, and in the Qing it divided into Yangxi 洋西 and Shandou 山兜 villages. Currently, there are the three natural villages of Shangdun 上墩, Xiadun 下墩 and Shandou 山兜 in this region, all of which are managed by the Yangxi Administrative Village 洋西行政村. Recently a new highway has cut through the region, cutting a swath through some of the villages. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis primarily of residence and lineage into four jia ritual associations. The Beichen zushê 北辰祖社 temple, located in Yangxi 洋西 village, is the main temple fo the four jia alliance. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year during Yuanxiao, the gods of the main temple and the founding shê altar are invited to go on a procession through all the villages of the alliance. 
V429 Yangxi 洋西 1. Village settlement Yangxi village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangdun 上墩 and Xiadun 下墩. The population is approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖and the Wu 吴. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 the Lin 林, the Song 宋 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Beichen zushê 北辰祖社, Beichen zumiao 北辰祖 庙: This temple was built during the Xianfeng period (1851–1861) and was rebuilt in 1987. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 2) Caihuidong 彩辉洞: The main god is 田公元帅. Secondary gods are Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Dage 大哥. 3) Sanshantang 三山堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. SJCDCB, 1992:9 records 38 initiates. 4) Jingangsi Buddhist temple 金刚寺 was rebuilt in Kangxi 19 (1680) (PTZJZCG, 1992:201) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15 the gods of Beichen zushê 北辰祖社 and Beichen zumiao 北辰祖庙 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is organized by Shangdun 上墩. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Shangdun 上墩. The birthday celebration of Sange sheren 三哥舍人 is organized by the Wu 吴of Shangdun 上墩. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xiao 肖in Xiadun 下墩. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 is organized by the Chen 陈 of Shangdun 上墩. 11/05: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/13: 
V430 Shandou 山兜 1. Village settlement The population of Shandou is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the You 游. Other surnames groups include the Zhou 周, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 and Yongxingshê 永兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Lisan furen 李三夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Sange sheren 三哥舍人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Zhongjun 中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10 the gods of Yongxingshê 永兴社 are taken on a procession around the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/18: The birthday celebration of Lisan furen 李三夫人. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sange sheren 三哥舍人. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公. 10/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu feren 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A099 Houzhuo qijing (Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance) 后卓七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Houzhuo is located at the feet of the Jiuhua Mountains 九华山. The main source of water and irrigation is the water diverted by the Xia Wuziba dam 下吴仔坝. This area was part of Houzhuo zhaidoupu 后卓宅兜铺 (police/defense unit) of Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the village of Houzhuo was settled, and in the Qing the village of Zhaidou 宅兜 separated off. Currently the area contains the villages of Houdun后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Taofeng 桃峰, Shangguo 上郭 and Xiating 下亭. All these villages are managed through the Houzhuo Administrative Village 后卓行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to residence and lineage into seven ritual territories. The Lukougong 路口宫 temple, located in Houzhuo Huangqipo 后卓黄 岐坡 is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods of Lukougong are Wushi xianfei 吴氏仙妃, while the secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Mayang zungong 马洋尊公. It is said that Lukougong 路口宫 was first built during the Song and collapsed during the mid-Ming. Each ritual alliance competed in wanting to take the statues of the gods back into their respective villages to offer their respects and worship. The temple was later rebuilt in a different location, but was completely torn down again during the Cultural Revolution. The temple was then rebuilt again in 1985 at the current location. Currently, this temple is the center of ritual action for the sevenfold ritual alliance of Houzhuo which includes Houdun 后墩, Qiandun 前墩, Taofeng 桃峰, Shangguo 上郭, Xiating 下亭, Donghu 洞湖, and Xiguo 西锅. As for such villages as Baidu 白杜, Qixi 企溪 and Xilou 下楼, they have developed into a relatively independent ceremonial systems, namely the ten-fold shê of Xibai 溪白十社 and the Donghu four village ritual alliance 洞湖四村. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance was part of the red banner alliance. 
V431 Houdun 后墩 1. Village settlement Houdun is divided into the three neighborhoods (jing 境) of Daxing 大星, Qingfeng 庆丰, and Lantian 蓝田. The entire village has more than 1000 people. Apart from agriculture, the local people live on the many fruit trees such as lychee trees and and waxberry trees. Many also work in shoe manufacturing factories. There is also economic support from their relatives overseas (Chinese overseas and Chinese in Taiwan). 2. Surname groups The entire village is mostly of the Wu surname group 吴, encompassing approximately 700 people. There are also a minority of the Houzhuo sevenfold ritual alliance Zheng 郑, Zhu 朱, and Xu 许. The Wu are from Jindun 金墩 and Tiezao 铁灶 in Hanjiang 涵江. They moved to Houdun, according to legend, during the Song Dynasty. Currently, the Wu in the village are divided into three branches, the Jiyu branch 季玉, Jinan branch 季南, and the Jifeng branch 季风房, of which the Jifeng branch has relatively more people, coming close to 300 people. The ancestral hall of the Wu is used as a storage room. The Wu are mostly spread out in two neighborhoods: Lantian 兰田 and Qingfeng 庆丰. 3. Village temples 1) Lukougong 路口宫 is the main temple for Houzhuo 后卓, Taofeng 桃峰, Donghu 洞湖, Xiamei 下美, Baidu 白杜, Xialou 霞楼, and Qixi 企溪. The temple was first built in the Song Dynasty, and was rebult in 1985 and later rebuilt again in a different location. The main god worshipped is Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Right altar, secondary gods: Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left altar, secondary gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian yuanshuai 齐天元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Houzhuo Zhongshan xiaoyoushê 后卓境中山孝友社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Xuantian dadi 玄天大帝. Secondary gods: Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Dong 董, Ge 葛, and Zhou jiangjun 周将军. 3) Damafu 大妈府: Main gods: Cui 崔, Yang 杨, and Li 李 dama 大妈. 4) Xingshansi Buddhist temple 兴山寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 5) Lukoutang Buddhist hall 路口堂 was built in 1920 (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12 (taking turns with Qiandun 前墩), Huang 黄 and Chen erdian jiangjun 陈二殿将军 are invited to go on procession within the four neighborhoods of the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Daxing 大星, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Qingfeng 庆丰, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/7: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by Lantian 蓝田, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/28: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance. No opera is performed. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and the celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 5. Ritual groups Each year one Xianglao 乡老 elder from each neighborhood is selected, four in total, to organize ritual activities of the year. Some Xianglao elders can tell fortunes 占卜 and chant spells 念咒. 11/11: 
V432 Xiating 下亭 1. Village settlement The current population of Xiating is more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. According to the Zheng, their ancestors emigrated from Zhuangbian 庄边 of Putian 莆田, because Houzhuo 后卓 used to be barren hills and they settled there while trying to reclaim the land. Others say that they emigrated from Chenmendou 辰门兜 of the inner city of Putian 莆田. The Zheng currently are divided into two neighborhoods in the village, that is, more than 400 people in Xiating and more than 300 people in Daxing 大星 of Houdun 后墩. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing zushê 龙兴祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 2) Anminfu 安民府 is dedicated to Daye 大爷. 3) Mingyingci 明应祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12, villagers participate in the procession of the Zheng 郑 and Wu 吴 lineages of Houdun 后墩 in rotation with the Xu 许 and Lin 林 lineages of Qiandun 前墩 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 5/6: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration was originally in the 7th lunar month, but it was brought up to the 6th day of the 5th lunar since the waxberries ripen during this time and villagers make money selling the waxberries during the celebrations. Opera can be performed. 
V433 Qiandun 前墩 1. Village settlement The entire village has a population of more than 700 people. Apart from agriculture, local people earn a living through rais- ing lychees, brick making, carpentry, and working in shoe manufacturing factories. 2. Surname groups The village was originally dominated by the Zhang 张, but now it is dominated by the Xu 许 and the Lin 林. The Xu used to be the long-term workers for the Zhang surname group. For unknown reasons, the Zhang no longer live in the village. The Xu make up three quarters of the entire population of the village, while the Lin make up one quarter. The origins of the Xu are unclear, nonetheless, formerly Xu surnamed people from Xudi 许地 in the Jiewai 界外 (areas subjected to coastal evacuation) visited Qiandun and claimed to share the same ancestors. It is said that during the Ming Dynasty, there were two high ministers (shangshu) 尚书 from Putian 莆田 at the court, one from Xibai 溪白 surnamed Fang 方 and the other by the surname of Xu from Qiandun village. When they were returning to their homes, a dispute arose as they both wanted to use the water from a stream at the foot of the Jiuhuashan mountain 九华山. Minister Xu wanted to use the stream for irrigation purposes while Minister Fang wanted to use it for making tea. The result of the dispute was to drill a hole in the rock that would allow only a small amount of the water to flow to Xibai, while the majority of the water flowed to irrigate the agricultural fields of Qiandun 前墩. This dispute made Minister Fang very angry and vengeful. He threw a lot of weapons into a deep pond located in the mountains behind Qiandun. Then he went to the emperor and told him that Minister Xu was preparing to overthrow the reign of the emperor by making weapons and assembling armies. When the emperor sent people to verify these claims, they found many weapons in the deep pond near Qiandun. Thus minister Xu and all his relations to the third degree were killed. One descendant of Minister Xu fled to the Jiewai 界外 (land beyond the limits). They added two strokes in front of the Xu character (许) so it became Xu (冫许 ). This is the reason behind the Xu (冫许) people coming to Houzhuo 后卓 to identify their common ancestry. The Xu 许 are divided into four branches in the village: first branch 头房, second branch 二房, third branch 三房, and fourth branch 四房. Among the branches, the second has the most people as well as an ancestral hall, which is now used as a storage center for straw. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongshan xiaoyoushê 中山孝友社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Dong 董, Ge 葛, and Zhou jiangjun 周将军. 2) Longxinggong 龙兴宫: Main god: Kongfu daren 孔府大人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanghei jiangjun 黄黑将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷. 3) Juhangting 聚沆亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 or 1/11–12, the villagers take turns with Houdun 后墩 village to invite Huang 黄 and Chen 陈二殿将军 erdian jiangjun, four statues in total, to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and one Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct Jiao rituals 做醮 for two nights. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/19, 6/19, and 9/19: the birthday celebrations for Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Opera is performed for two days each time. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/18: the birthday celebration of Kongfu daren 孔府大人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Lantian 蓝田, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contributions for the opera performance are partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题 缘 and partly by collecting on a per capita basis. 
V434 Shangguo 上郭 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. Apart from agriculture, the local people live on the many fruit trees and by brick-making. 2. Surname groups The Guo 郭 makes up 90% of the population of the entire village. Other surnames include the Li 李, the Lin 林, and the Zheng 郑. The Guo are related to those in Hetang 柯塘 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off from the Longxingshê of Xiating village 下亭龙兴社 in Xianfeng 9 (1859): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Huoshen jiangjun 火神将军, Hushen jiangjun 虎神将军, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are carried in a procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯 is held. 8/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contribution for the opera performances is partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题缘. The directors of these ritual events 主持人 are selected by rotation according to their age, two per year. Taofeng 桃峰 1. Village settlement The entire village has a population of approximately 800 people. Their sidelines include fruit trees (lychee), shoe manufacturing factories as well as financial aid from Taiwan and overseas. 2. Surname groups The population of the entire village is 40% Chen 陈 and 25% Guo 郭. The Chen 陈 have some 300 people. One group are descendents of the Geli Chen 隔厘陈 who emigrated from Donghu 洞湖. This group has an ancestral hall in the village. The other group of Chen are called the Yingshui Chen 颖水陈, and emigrated from Kuokou 阔口. These latter Chen are divided into the first branch, second branch, third branch and fourth branch, of which the fourth has the most people, making up approximately one third of the total population of the surname group. The Guo 郭 have approximately 100 people. They emigrated from Guozhuang 郭庄 near Wujiang river 吴江. The Guo are also divided into four branches. The following miscellaneous surname groups are also found in the village: the Fang 方, the Weng 翁, the Lin 林, the Wu 吴, the Shi 施, the Huang 黄, the Yan 颜, the Cheng 程 and the Gao 高. 3. Village temples 1) Jianxingshê 建兴社 was built dring the Qing Tongzhi period (1862–1874). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Mayang jiangjun 马洋将军, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Right: Huang 黄 and Chen 陈 erdian jiangjun 二殿将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Baoandian 保安殿: Main god: Jin daren 金大人. Secondary gods: Lan daren 蓝大人, Huo daren 火大人 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Yuanmingtang 园明堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Right: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhang gong 张公. Left: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Middle: Shijia mouni 释加牟尼. Front: Xuantan gong 玄坛公, Weituo 韦陀. 4) Cihangting 慈航亭: Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guangong dijun 关圣帝君, Wuqu xingjun 武曲星君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Xinshantang 信善堂 was built in Guangxu period (1875–1909). The temple was renovated in 1987. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Dizangwang 地藏王, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo 韦陀. Side hall: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–13, all the gods in the shê temple are carried around on procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/5: The birthday celebration of Jin daren 金大人 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Baoandian 保安 殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 2/19 and 9/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. Opera is not performed. The offerings are set out by the Xinshantang 信善堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 6/3: The birthday celebration of Weituo 韦陀 is held. Opera is not performed, The offerings are set out by the Yuanmingtang 圆明堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjuin 张公圣君 is held with opera performances. This event is organized by the village as a whole. 8/5: The birthday celebration of Lan daren 蓝大人 is held. Opera is not performed, but Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Baoandian 保安殿, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The contributions for the opera performance are partly raised by asking for voluntary contributions 题缘 and partly by collecting on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Hosts/managers of the event: Each year five Xianglao 乡老 are selected as managers, plus a few young people to aid in fundraising. 
A100 Xibai shishê (Xibai ten shê ritual alliance) 溪白十社 The ten shê alliance of Xibai is located at the base of the Jiuhua 九华山 mountains, and mostly draws its water from the Sihua Weir 泗华陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Baidupu (police/defense unit) 白杜铺 of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the villages of 白杜, Xipu 溪埔 and Dongban 东坂 were settled. In the Qing, the villages of Xiawei下 尾, Xiaxi 下溪, Xialiu下刘 and Qixi 企溪 separated off. Currently, approximately 5000 people live in the villages of the alliance, and they are managed by the Xibai Administrative Village 溪白行政村. Apart from agriculture, the local people earn a living by raising lychees, forestry, carpentry, as contractors, and as workers. The temple ritual system is divided up according to settlements and lineage into ten shê ritual associations. Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, located in Baidu 白杜 village, is the ancestral founding shê 祖社 of Xibai 溪白, while Beijidian 北极殿 in Luding 路顶 village is the main temple for Xibai 溪白. Each year on lunar 1/15, the ten shê of Xibai collectively celebrate the Yuanxiao festival, and take the gods of Xiaoyoushê and Beijidian on a procession to all the she-altars of the alliance. The ritual leaders of each shê are selected in rotation on the basis of age, while the director of the Xiaoyoushê is determined by casting divination blocks. A minority of villagers are Christians. The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Yao 姚. Other surnames include the Shen 沈, Chen 陈, Wu 吴, Fang 方, and Li 李. The Lin, making up 30% of the population of Xibai, are mainly living in Tangbian, Gelong 隔垄 as well as in other villages. It is said that they came to Putian during the Huang Chao Revolt 黄巢起义 during the late Tang Dynasty. The Lin lineage is divided into four branches: Jun 君, Zi 子, Ju 居, and Li 利. The Zi branch has the most people, with approximately 450 people. They originally had an ancestral hall, but now it has been converted into a school. The Yao mainly live in Xiatou 下头 and Hantou 汉头, and make up 20% of the entire village population. They are divided into two lineage branches: Qian 乾 and Kun 坤. The Kun branch is the bigger one, and is subdivided into four sub-branches: Ren 仁, Yi 义, Shê 社, and Zhi 智. It is said that their founding ancestor first came to Puwei 浦尾 of Hanjiang 涵江 to Xibai 溪白. Their ancestral tombs are in Sanshan 三山, and there is a lineage genealogy. Xibai ten shê ritual alliance Historically, the Fang lineage of Baidu 白杜方氏 was a prominent local lineage with many successful examination candidates. Over the Ming, they produced three Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and ten Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Song Chunxi 14 (1187), a Zhuangyuan (First place) memorial archway was erected for Fanghao 方镐, who had received the top award in the special examinations 特科第一名立“状元”牌坊. In Ming Jingtai 5 (1454) the Xinghua Prefect 兴化知府 set up a Shuanggui 双 桂牌坊 memorial archway for two Fang brothers who had passed the exams. In Ming Tianshun 4 (1460), a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up for one Fangkui 方逵 . In Ming Zhengtong 6 (1441), a Liuqing 流庆牌坊 memorial archway was set up for Fang Di 方迪. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the ten shê alliance of Xibai was part of the black banner alliance. 
V436 Baidu 白杜 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing 杜塘境 Beijidian 北极殿, Xiaoyoushê 孝友社. It is said that this temple was called the Xiangying temple 祥应庙 in the Song dynasty. A stele from the Ming is preserved in the temple 明方 良永谕祭碑. The main gods are: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. A stele composed in Shaoxing 8 (1138) by Fang Lue 方略 entitled 有宋兴化军祥应庙记 (Record of the Temple of Auspicious Response of the Xinghua Commandery in the Song dynasty) describes a large temple in this village about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:11, No. 14). This stele is preserved at the Putian History Museum on the grounds of the former Dongyueguan. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and the Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuntian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for three days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes this event as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capital basis. 10/25: The village celebrates the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê-temple organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V437 Tangbian 塘边 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Dutangjing Fangshishê, Tianhougong 杜塘境方石 社, 天后宫 is co-owned with Gelong 隔垄 village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions: On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist rites are held. masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized cooperatively with Gelong 隔垄, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from both villages. On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V438 Gelong 隔垄 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 425 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Guanyinge 观音阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary god is Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Daguansi Buddhist temple 大观寺 was rebuilt in 1983 (PTZJZCG, 1992:213). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten village ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten-fold shê. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized cooperatively with Tangbian 塘边, and funds are collected on a per capita basis in both villages. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V439 Luding 路顶 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, Yu 俞, and Chen 陈. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xiangfushê 祥福社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣候, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession within the ten- shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the entire ten shê ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V440 Xiaxi 下溪 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 900 people. The village is divided into Wucuo 吴厝 and Huangcuo 黄厝. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Huang 黄. The minor surname group is the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 信兴社 (which belongs to Wucuo 吴厝) was built in Qianlong 41 (1776), revived in 1986 and rebuilt in 2004. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wenlin shuipo 文临水婆, Huang jiangjun 黄将军. Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯 and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. 2) Anning shangshê 安宁上社 (which belongs to Huangcuo 黄厝) is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wulie jiangjun 武烈将军. 3) Qingshantang 庆善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. The secondary god is Zheng daren 郑大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Huang 黄 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临 水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. This is organized by the Huang lineage based in Anning shangshê 安宁上社. On 1/14 the Wu 吴 invite Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 to go on procession within the village. This is organized by the Wu 吴 lineage based in Xinxingshê 信兴社. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession around all the ten shê. On all these days, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual mas ters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by Xiaoyou shê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V441 Xiatou 下头 1. Village settlement Xiatou was originally known as Xia Liu 下刘. The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yang 杨 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples Zongxingshê 总兴社 was built in Qianlong 42 (1777). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Bao hougong 保侯公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Xu daren 徐大人, Cigan tianfei 慈感天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Wang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯 and Shengya jiangjun 圣牙将军. 2) Shenglong shuyuan 升云书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Longhutang 龙华堂 is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods are Lanfu daren 兰府大人 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Damingtang 大明堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to all the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V442 Qixi 企溪 1. Village settlement The village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhuo 卓. The other surname groups are the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘 and the Zeng曾. 3. Village temples Anpingshê 安平社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 and Cigan tianfei 慈感天妃, 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V443 Hantou 汉头 1. Village settlement Hantou is also known as Xiangtou 巷头. The village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Shen 沈. The other surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Ou 欧. 3. Village temples 1) Aning zushê 安宁祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 2) Huayuantang 华源堂 was built in 1986. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Tiangong dadi 天宫大帝, Shuigong dadi 水宫大帝, Digong dadi 地宫大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. On 2/2 Toufu 头福 celebrations are held with opera. A procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14 and 7/16: Celebrations are held for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The offerings are set out by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 1/15, 7/15, and 10/15: Celebrations are held for the Sanguan dadi 三官大帝 of Heaven, Earth and Water. The offerings are set out by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛 元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Xiaoyoushê 孝 友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V444 Gushan 古山 1. Village settlement The village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yu 俞. 3. Village temples Longxingshê 隆兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhang daren 张大人, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Wenlin shuima 文临水妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 元宵仪式: On 1/13 the gods of the Longxingshê 隆兴社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Longxingshê 龙兴社 and the Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V445 Dongban 东坂 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zeng 曾 and the Shen 沈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingningshê 新宁社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang shenghou 黄圣侯, Chen shenghou 陈圣侯, Ma daren 马大人, Deng zhongjun 邓中军, Wang zhongjun 王中军, Shi zhongjun 施中军. 2) Longxinggong 龙兴宫: Main god: Tianmen Zhu zhizun 天门朱至尊. 3) Longhuatang 龙华堂: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Yima yuanjun 姨妈元君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Chen jiangjun 陈将军, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Wenlin shuima 文临水妈 of the Xingningshê 兴宁社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 there is a joint Yuanxiao for the Xibai 溪白 ten shê ritual alliance. All the gods of Xiaoyoushê 孝友社 and Beijidian 北极殿 are invited to go on procession to each of the ten shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the entire ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. Birthday celebrations of the gods On 10/25 the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Xingningshê 兴宁社 and Xiaoyoushê 孝友社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 11/28 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One. Scripture masters 经师 and friends of Dao (Three in One initiates) 道友 recite the scriptures 念经. This rite is organized by the Huayuantang 华源堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A101 Donghu sanshê (Donghu three shê ritual alliance) 洞湖三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Donghu is located in between the Sihua Weir 泗华陂irrigation system and the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system. The villages of this alliance rely primarily on water from springs on Jiuhua Mountain 九华山 for irrigation. This area was part of the Loutou Xianpu 楼 头溪安铺 of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Dantou 淡头 was settled. Currently the area is divided into three natural villages: Donggu 洞湖, Xiguo 西锅 and Duxi 度西, all of which are managed by the Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to settlement and lineage into three shê-associations. The Yongningshê 永宁社, located in Donghu 洞湖 village was originally the founding shê-temple of the three villages. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. It is said that formerly the three shê joined in a common procession of the gods of this temple during the Yuanxiao festival. Later, due to disputes between them, they divided up, and the collective processions and rites have not been revived. The main surname group in this area is the Li 李. The Li emigrated from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. They are divided into the upper Li branch and the lower Li branch, of which the lower Li branch is further divided into five sub-branches. The Li originally had an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy, but these were destroyed. Their lineage genealogy is similar to that of the Li of Yangwei. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three shê alliance of Donghu was part of the white banner alliance. Donghu three shê ritual alliance 
V446 Donghu 洞湖 1. Village settlement Donghu was originally called Dantou 淡头. Donghu is a part of Donghu Administrative Village 洞湖行政村. The total population of Donghu is approximately 3600 people. Their main source of income is agriculture. People also work in shoe manufacturing factories. Some even have their own factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in Donghu village are the Li 李, Chen 陈, Lin 林 and the Fang 方. The Li have the most people and make up 40% of the entire population. The Fang and the Chen each make up 15%. There are a number of Christian households in the village. 3. Village Temples 1) Donghu Yongningshê 洞湖境永宁社 branched off from Lukougong 路口宫 in Houzhuo 后卓. Built in the Song, this temple was rebuilt in Wanli 21 (1593), renovated in Qianlong 12 (1747), Jiaqing 21 (1816), and again in 1988. Main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Middle: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and 鲁府大妈. 2) Shuifengdong 水丰洞: It is claimed that this temple was originally built in the Tang dynasty. The temple was rebuilt in the 6th lunar month of 1992. Main god: Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. There is a Ming stele about irrigation rights preserved in the temple. 3) Xianyingmiao 显应庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhencisi Buddhist temple 真慈寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao On 1/13, the Li 李 carry the incense burners of the shê-altar 社炉 to each household to practice the Dao 道. On 1/14, the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 do the same. On 1/11 and on 1/15, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 and Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公, Qiuliu dashi 邱刘大使, and Chenzheng jiangjun 陈郑将军 are invited to go on procession within Houzhuo 后卓, Xitianwei 西天尾 and Xian 溪安. The incense burners are invited from the main temple. Opera is performed, One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. The Li lineage and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch with one another the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/ 25 and on 1/28, there is a procession of inspection around the village including decorated horses (zouma 走马), sedan chairs of the gods, the Toufu 头福 community leaders, and various performing arts troupes. The Li and the miscellaneous surname group each takes care of one day, and they switch the next year. Funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 are held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 5/15: The birthday celebration of Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯 is held. 6/16: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/13: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian.五谷神仙 is held. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人 is held. 8/3: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for one or two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis at a rate of 0.5 RMB/ person. The village also has some Christian families. 
V447 Xiguo 西锅 1. Village Settlement The village of Xiguo has over 100 people. 2. Surname Groups The Chen 陈 are the main surname group, while the Li 李 have five households. 3. Village temples Yongxingshê 永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Sida jiangjun 四大将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao Processions On 1/11 or 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). On 1/24, there is a joint lantern procession carried out together with the Yongning xishê of Duxi village度西永宁西社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 11/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera performances and Daoist rites. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 
V448 Duxi 度西 1. Village settlement Duxi village has over 100 people. 2. Surname Groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨, although there are also a few Chen 陈 families. 3. Village temples Yongning xishê 永宁西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Jiuniangma 九娘妈. Secondary gods include Tongling shenghou 统领圣侯, Ruigou xianggong 瑞沟相公 and Yaoshi furen 姚氏夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 or 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao). On 1/24, there is a joint lantern procession carried out together with the Yongxingshê 永兴社 of Xiguo 西锅 village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 and Jiu niangma 九娘妈 is held with opera performances and Daoist rites. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are gathered on a per capita basis. 
A102 Fenglin qijing (Fengling sevenfold ritual alliance) 枫林七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Fenglin is located at the foot of Jihua Mountain 九华山. The main sources of irrigation in the area are from the Lianguibei Weir 联桂陂, the Xiangfeng moqianba dam 象峰磨前坝, the Xiawuzi dam 下吴仔坝, and the waters of the Guantang reservoir 官塘水源. This area was part of the Xuwupu 许吴铺, the Houpupu 厚埔铺 and the Xiangfengpu 象峰铺 (various police/defense units) of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the villages of Xiawu 下吴 and Shanghuang 上黄 were already settled. Currently the villages of Houpu 后埔 (Houpu 厚埔), Xiayu 下宇 (Xiaxu 下许), Chenglin 澄林, Guantang 官塘 (Ketang 柯塘), Kengtou 坑头, Shanghuang 上黄, Fenglin 枫林 (Linfeng 林峰), and Xitianwei 西天尾 (Xitingwei 西亭尾) can be found in this area. All of these villages are managed by the Dongxing Administrative 东星行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of the originally extant shê-temples of the region into seven ritual territories. Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, located in Linfeng 林峰 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main goddess of the temple is Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the villages of the sevenfold alliance go to this temple to request incense fire 请香火. Everyday activities and larger ritual events of the temple are handled by the temple committee, made up of representatives from each of the member villages. Currently, Xitianwei 西天尾, which has become a bustling town, no longer participates in the ritual activities of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Linfeng 林峰. The proportional contribution to the costs of collective rites and processions of the remaining villages within the ritual alliance are as follows: Houpu 后埔 26%, Xiayu 下宇 24%, Chenglin 澄林 13%, Guantang 官塘 12%, Kengtou 坑头 3%, Shanghuang 上黄 7%, and Linfeng 林峰 15%. Fengling Qijing sevenfold ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Chenglin 澄林 was part of the black banner alliance, while the other villages were all part of the red banner alliance. 
V449 Houpu 后埔 1. Village settlement The current population is 1500 people. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Fruit trees provide a significant proportion of the economic income. The main types of fruit trees are dragon eyes, bananas, and loquats. The entire village is divided into three neighborhoods: Qiangan 前干, Dinggan 顶干, and Hougan 后干. 2. Surname groups The Zhu 朱, the Lin 林 and the You 游 are the main surname groups. The Xu 许 and the Chen 陈 each have more than ten households. The Weng 翁 have only one household. The Li 李 have three households and the Liu 刘 have five households. It is said that the Lin are from Shandong province 山东. They maintain the Tangmei (Lin) ancestral hall 唐美祠堂. The Zhu came from Jingpu 井埔 of Huangshi 黄石. The You claim to have originated from Pingguangjun 广平郡 of Henan province 河南. They are divided into six branches and have been in the village for more than ten generations. 3. Village temples 1) Houpujing Longxing yishê 后埔境隆兴义社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Left altar: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Guiputan 圭埔坛 (Guipu shuyuan 圭埔书院): Main gods: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 3) Qingliandong 青廉洞: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4) Taishipingsi Buddhist temple 太史坪寺 was rebuilt in the Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:215). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14 Qiangan 前干, Hougan 后干, and Dinggan 顶干 take turns to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Li daren 李大人, and Wei daren 魏大人 to go on procession within its territory. On 1/22–23, the Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rite is celebrated. Lanterns go on procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V450 Shanghuang 上黄 1. Village settlement The entire village has a total of 154 people living in 26 households. Agriculture is the main livelihood. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 are the main surname group. Minor surnames include the Cai 蔡 in one household, and the Ou 欧 in 3 households. The Huang came from Putian city. They are related to the Chizhu Huang lineage of the eastern part of Putian city 赤柱黄. In Shanghuang village, the Huang are divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Shanghuang Anning zhongshê 上黄境安宁忠社 was rebuilt both in Qing Tongzhi 5 (1866) and in 1990. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wushi shengfei 吴氏圣妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Ruiyun gong 瑞云宫 was rebuilt in 1983. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, villagers go to the Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫 to invite back the incense burners. These are then are taken to every household in the village to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/15 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 are invited to go on procession within the village. Then lanterns are carried in a procession around the village territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V451 Linfeng 林峰 1. Village settlement The village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cheng 程. It is said that the Cheng emigrated from Jindun Tiezao 金墩铁灶 in Hanjiang 涵江. The minor surname group is the Zeng 曾. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫 was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 6 (1801) and renovated in 1984. Main god: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. Secondary gods: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Fenglin Qingningshê 枫林境庆宁社 was renovated in 1987. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Wugu daxian 五谷大仙. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Jicuian Buddhist shrine 积翠庵 was originally built in the Tang by monk Baoguang 宝光. In the Song, the monk Xingguo 兴国 rebuilt the temple. In Wanli 15 (1587), the monk Huixing 慧性 rebuilt the temple. In Kangxi 20 (1681) the monk Haiding rebuilt the temple. (PTZJZCG, 1992:214) 4) Yuyunsi Buddhist temple 寓云寺 (PTZJZCG, 1992:214) 5) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. SJCDCB, 1992:36 records fifty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the main alliance temple of Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V452 Kengbian 坑边 1. Village settlement This small village has approximately 150 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Yixingshê 义兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Mayang zungong 马洋 尊公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Baifu daren 白府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingyundong 庆云洞: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 of the main alliance temple, the Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V453 Kengtou 坑头 1. Village settlement Kengtou is divided into Shangkengtou 上坑头 and Xiakengtou 下坑头. The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, and Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qinglong zushê 青龙祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Baifu daren 白府大人 and Jinyu tongzi 金玉童子. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 of the main alliance temple Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V454 Chenglin 澄林 1. Village settlement Chenglin is divided into seven neighborhoods: Xiangli 巷里, Cuowei 厝尾, Wengcuo 翁厝, Wucuo 吴厝, Zawu 杂吴, Dongpaichen 东牌陈, and Qianding 乾顶. The entire village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups 70% are of the Chen 陈 surname group. There are also more than sixty Lin 林 households, twelve Weng 翁 households, seventeen Wu 吴 households, and thirty Huang 黄 households. The Chen are the Chen of Dongyang 东阳陈 of Chengxiang 城厢 outside Putian city. The Weng came from Meilan 美兰 in Beigao 北高. The Lin claim to be related to the Jiumu Lin 九牧林 of Wushi 乌石 in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Chenglinjing Fulongshê 澄林境浮龙社 was originally built in Qianlong 22 (1757). The temple was destroyed in 1959, and rebuilt in 1987. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugu daxian 五谷大仙, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tielu zungong 铁炉 尊公, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军. 2) Yuanyingdian 元应殿 was rebuilt in 1985. Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 (main god), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chendaye 陈大爷. 3) Xinglongdong 兴隆洞: Main god: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 4) Wangfutang 万福堂: Main god: Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Dongfu dage 董府大哥. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers go to the main alliance temple, the Zhaohui linggong 昭慧灵宫, to invite the incense burners back to their village, where they are taken to every household in the village to practice the Dao 行道. A procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕灯游境. On 1/15, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tielu zungong 铁炉尊公, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊 公, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession within the village. Lanterns are taken on a procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/6: The birthday celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 is held. 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 11/11: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Xiayu 下宇 1. Village settlement Xiayu was originally called Xiaxu 下许. Xiayu village is divided into two neighborhoods: Kejiao 柯角 and Youjiao 游角. There are currently more than 1000 people living in the village. Agriculture is the main livelihood. Other activities include female workers working in shoe manufacturing factories, carpentry and brick laying. 2. Surname groups The main surname group of Kejiao is Ke 柯, while the main surname group of Youjiao is You 游. Other surnames include the Qian 钱, Guo 郭, and the Zeng 曾. It is said that the Ke 柯氏 emigrated from Kezhu 柯朱 in Lingchuan 灵川 in Kangxi 32 (1693). 3. Village temples 1) Anrenshê 安仁社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong dawang 都统大王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Zhongtianci 中天祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 100 initiates. 3) Qimingtang 启明堂: Main god: Guanyin dashi观音大士. Secondary god: Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–15: Dutong dawang 都统大王, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, two fushou 福首 are selected to be in charge of holding the incense burners and organizing the zongjiaofan 棕轿饭 (feast for the palm sedan chair bearers). Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/24: The birthday celebration of Dutong dawang 都统大王. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Zhongtianci 中天祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V456 Guantang 官塘 1. Village settlement Guantang is also known as Ketang 柯塘. Guantang village is divided into three neighborhoods: Dingcuo 顶厝, Xincuoli 新厝里, and Changcheng 长埕. The entire village has approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The entire village shares the surname Guo 郭, and is of the Hui ethnic group 回族. According to local legend, as recounted by lineage elders, the ancestors of the Guo originally lived in Gushi 固始 of the Henan province 河南. During the period of Tang Yizong (860–874) their founding ancestor Master Song 嵩公 entered Fujian province to settle in the Zhi Mountains of Changle 长乐芝山 (also known as Guokeng 郭坑), During the Kaiping period of the Latter Liang (907–911), Master Xun 询公 entered Xianyou 仙游 and lived in Dafeibei 大蜚山. During the Song period, Master Weigao 惟高公 moved to Gudai 郭埭 village of Weitang 魏塘 in Putian. During the Song Shaoxing period (1131–1162), Master Yaoruo 尧若公 moved to Cangzhou 沧州 (also called Guocang 郭沧 or Guozhuang 郭庄). During the mid-Yuan, Master Gou 垢公 moved to Wushi 乌石. During the late Ming, Master Bofeng 伯凤公 moved to Dingcuo 顶厝 in Guantang 官塘. In the early Qing, Master Jingshun 景顺公 moved from Caopu 草埔 to Xincuoli 新厝里 of Guantang 官塘. The above mentioned ancestors are the two main lines of origin of the Guo 郭 in Guantang village 官塘村. 3. Village temples 1) Anren shê 安仁社 branched off from Anren zushê 安仁祖社 of Xitianwei 西天尾 during the late Ming. In Qianlong 35 (1770), Master Xuebo 学博公 raised funds and built the temple. The temple was renovated in 1986 and was rebuilt in 1995. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Mayang zungong 马洋 尊公, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 and Dutong dawang 都统大王. 2) Baiyundong 白云洞 is dedicated to Daye 大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–15 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtufuren 天上圣母, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Dutong dawang 都统大王 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V457 Xitianwei 西天尾 1. Village settlement Xitianwei was originally called Xitingwei 西亭尾 and was a center of exchange for goods from the mountainous regions of Putian 莆田 and goods from the plains. There currently are more than 5000 people living in the market town. Their main livelihood is commerce and agriculture. Other livelihoods include female workers working in shoe manufacturing factories and commercial trading. 2. Surname groups Wei 魏, Shi 施, Cai 蔡, Chen 陈, Lin 林, Wu 吴, Weng 翁, Ke 柯, and Zhu 朱. It is said that Xitianwei village originally only had three surnames (that is, the Wei 魏, Shi 施, and Cai 蔡). The Chen 陈, Lin 林, and Wu 吴 emigrated from Houzhuo 后卓. The Weng 翁, Ke 柯, and Zhu 朱 moved here after the founding of the PRC, and are considered to be new settlers. 3. Village temples Xiawujing 霞梧境 Anren zushê 安仁祖社: It is said that in the past, only twenty-seven households built this shê. Lin Chongbao 林崇宝 volunteered land and money to build the temple. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 55 (1790), and was renovated in the 1990s. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Dutong zunwang 都统尊王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军 and Zoufu daren 邹府大人. 2) Rendean 仁德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Baima jiangjun 白马将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Dutong zunwang 都统尊王 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/13: The birthday of Cuifu daren 邹府大人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/28: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A103 Chengzhu liushê (Chengzhu six shê ritual alliance) 澄渚六社 The six shê ritual alliance of Chengzhu is located in between the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system and the Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Chengzhu Donghuangpu (police/defense unit) 澄渚东黄铺 of the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里. In the Ming, the village of Chengzhu was settled, and belonged to the Rendeli sub-canton, but it was reassigned to the Zunxianli sub-canton 尊贤里 in the Qing. In the late Qing the villages of Miaoqian 庙前, Yuli 俞里, Shuiliuli 水流利, Banludian 半路店, Donghuang 东黄, and Xiazheng 霞郑 separated off. The current population is about 3000 people, and these villages are managed by the Chengzhu Administrative Village 澄渚行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of originally existing shê-temples into six shê. Apart from agriculture, the current source of income includes fields of lychee trees, fields of dragon eye trees, carpentry, stone-quarrying, and working in shoe manufacturing factories. The Ningchangmiao 宁昌庙 temple, located in Yuli 俞里 village, is the main temple of the six shê ritual alliance. The main god is Chifeng weiwu shenghou 敕封威武圣侯. It is said that formerly, on irregular occasions, the god was invited to go on a procession through the six shê of the alliance, but currently these collective processions have not been restored. Historically, the two surnames of Yu 俞 and Zheng 郑 were prominent lineages with successful examination graduates. In the Ming this area produced four Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and twelve Juren 举人 (Provincial Graduates). In Ming Chenghua 10 (1474), a Panlong 攀龙牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Yu lineage 俞. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Miaoqian 庙前 village was part of the black banner alliance, while all the other villages were part of the white banner alliance. 
V458 Miaoqian 庙前 1. Village settlement The entire village has over 1000 people 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Chen 陈, Li 李, Lin 林, Huang 黄, and Zheng 郑. The Chen make up 50% of the population of the entire village, and are the Chen of Yuhu 玉湖陈 (the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈). The Chen in the village are divided into three branches: Fu 福, Lu 禄, and Shou 寿, of which the Shou branch has the most people, with approximately 300 people. Chengzhu six shê ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Ningxingshê 宁兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 2) Shuiwudian 水武殿 is dedicated to Jiangdaren 江大人, Tiandaren 田大人, Zhaodaren 赵大人, Wang daren 王大人 and Baidaren 白大人. The secondary god is Majiangjun 马将军. 3) Bishuidong 碧水洞 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 4) Deben shuyuan 德本书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 120 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by four village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of the gods of Shuiwudian 水武殿 is held with marionette opera. 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V459 Yuli 俞里 1. Village settlement The village has more than 400 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yu 俞, Chen 陈, and Yang 杨. The Yu 俞 make up 90% of the population. The Yu are divided into four branches: Xincuoli 新厝里, Datingli 大厅里, Xiacuoli 下厝里, and Lishengli 立生里, of which Xincuoli has the most people, making up more than half of the total population. The Yu have a lineage genealogy. 3. Village temples 1) Ningchangmiao 宁昌庙 is also know as Tiyunzhai 梯云斋. Main god: imperially enfeoffed 敕封 Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯. Secondary gods: (left) Lubu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, (right) Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tianpeng yuanshuai 天蓬元帅. The temple preserves a stele composed in Hongzhi 13 (1500) by Yu Rongyuan 俞榕原 entitled 梯云斋记 (Record of the Studio of the Ladder of Clouds) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:130, No. 111). 2) Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 3) Xinbentang 信本堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records fifty initiates. 4) Mingxingtang 明性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 record forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself. Every year, these events are organized by two village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/24: The birthday celebration of Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by Xinbentang 信本堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V460 Xiazheng 霞郑 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300–400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. Currently, the village is divided into four groups, and each group has approximately the same number of people. There is an ancestral hall and a lineage genealogy. The village once produced an imperial censor 御史 surnamed Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Longjin dongshê 龙津东社 branched from Longkengshê 龙坑社. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Zhang gong 张公, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Huang daren 黄大人, Jiang daren 江大人, Liu dutong 柳都统, Jin dutong 金都统, Jixiang maojiang 吉祥茂将, Mafu shenjiang 马府神将. 2) Deshengtang 德胜堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Huang daren 黄大人 Jiang daren 江大人, Liu dutong 柳都统, Jin dutong 金都统, Jixiang maojiang 吉祥茂将, Mafu shenjiang 马府神将 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V461 Shuiliuli 水流利 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately more than 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Han 韩, Zhu 朱, Xie 谢, and Chen 陈. The Zhu has the most people with approximately 300 members. The Zhu emigrated from Dongzhu 东洙 of Huangshi 黄石 a few hundred years ago. In the village, the Yao are divided into two branches: Yi 义 and Kun 坤. Later on, Yi and Kun each developed into two sub-branches, and each sub-branch has approximately the same number of people. The Xie has more than sixty people, and they emigrated from Daitou 埭头. The Xie are divided into five branches, of which the second branch has the most people. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 branched off (divided incense) from Longkengshê 龙坑社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Wubentang 务本堂 (the Zhu 朱): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records ninety initiates. 3) Zongkongtang 宗孔堂 (the Xie 谢): Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Wen 温, Kang 康, Ma 马, Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田 公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 are invited to go on processions within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is organized by two village elders. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Lingshun shengfei 灵顺圣妃 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. At the end of the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. This ritual is organized by the Wubentang 务本堂 and the Zongkongtang 宗孔堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V462 Banludian 半路店 1. Village settlement The village has 200–300 people. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 makes up more than 95% of the population of the village. The Yao 姚 moved here from Chongqin 冲沁 to open a shop, and a village developed from there, taking the name of the shop for the village name (“shop halfway down the road”). The Yao of the village are divided into six branches: Songshuxia 松树下, Jiucuo 旧厝, Gebicuo 隔壁厝, Yuanding 园顶, Xiazhangcuo 下张厝, and Cuobian 厝边, of which Jiucuo has the most people, with approximately 50% of the entire population. 3. Village temples Wanxingshê 万兴社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen 姨妈夫人, Jinfu daren 金府大人, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Guangze zunwang 广泽 尊王, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神 are invited to go on procession within the village and lanterns are paraded. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Every year, this event is hosted by two village elders, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 11/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all the above occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V463 Donghuang 东黄 1. Village settlement The village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Yao 姚, Huang 黄, Zhu 朱, Guo 郭, Wang 王, and Lin 林. The Yao emigrated from Chongqin 冲沁 in Hanjiang 涵江, while the Huang emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞 (Huangxiang) of Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Longjingong 龙津宫, 龙津东社 Longjinggong, Longjing dongshe: Main gods Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jinfu zhongjun 金府中军. 2) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 3) Longjintan 龙津坛 is dedicated to Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4) Mingshangong 名山宫 is dedicated to Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. 5) Shuiyueting 水月亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 6) Yaodaoci 瑶岛祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is dedicated to 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhu 朱 invite Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Tiangong yuanshuai 中天大圣 to go on procession. On 1/14 the Yao 姚, Huang 黄, and Guo 郭 invite the same gods to go on procession. On 1/15 the Wang 王 and the Lin 林 invite the same gods to go on processions. On 1/26–29 Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is celebrated. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 11/23: The birthday celebration of Jinfu zhongjun 金府中军 is held. On all occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The celebrations are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A104 Longshan qijing (Longshan sevenfold ritual alliance) 龙山七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Longshan is located in between the Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 irrigation system and the Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Loutou xi’anpu 楼头溪安铺 and the Chenglinpu 澄林铺 (police/defense units) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the early Qing the villages of Daqiaotou 大桥头, Zhenxia 圳下, Xi’an 溪 安, Houting 后亭, Xishan 西山, Beishan 北山 and Wushi 乌石 were settled. After the founding of the PRC, the villages of Xincun 新村 and Dongzhen 东圳 were created to house villagers evacuated to make way for the creation of the Dongzhen Reservoir. The current population of the entire area is approximately 2400 people. All these villages are managed by the Longshan Administrative Village 龙山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê temples into seven ritual territories. Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, located in Xincun 新村 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. This temple is also a central temple for a smaller region. The main goddess is Imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual territories of the alliance come to the temple to present incense, and to invite the goddess back to their village to go on a procession around the village boundaries. And each year around the birthdate of Tianshang shenmu, the villagers of the region will go to the temple to sponsor opera performances. Every twelve years, Tianshang shengmu is taken on a procession through all the villages of the ritual alliance. The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, and the Yang 杨. The Huang, making up more than 60% of the total population of the sevenfold ritual alliance, live in Beishan 北山, Daqiaotou 大桥头, Wushi 
A104 Longshan sevenfold ritual alliance 乌石, and Zhenxia 圳下. It is said that the Huang moved to the village from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and are divided into five branches, of which the third branch has the most people, making up approximately 50% of the total population of the Huang. The Lin are mainly living in Wushi 乌石. There is a Jiumu zuci 九牧祖祠 Lin ancestral hall which is said to date to the Tang Dynasty and which was rebuilt in Qing Tongzhi 12 (1886), and rebuilt again in 1991. There is an old stele in the hall as well as portraits of the Lin ancestors. The Lin have a lineage genealogy and ancestral tombs in Wushi. The Yang make up 80% of the population of Xishan 西山 village. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the Longhsan sevenfold alliance were part of the black banner alliance. 
V464 Xi’an 溪安 1. Village settlement Xi’an village includes an area known as Houting 后亭. The entire village has approximately 380 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Fang 方. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng shangshê 新丰上社, Beijidian 北极殿, Xinglongmiao 兴隆庙: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公无帅, Dian daren 电大人, Tian daren 田大人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense procession 进香 is made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V465 Daqiaotou 大桥头 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄, Lin 林, Su 苏, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingfu dongshê 兴福东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使. 2) Xianbentang 贤本堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 345 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, villagers go to the temple to ask for the incense fire 请香火 of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/14, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of Xingfushê 兴福社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 10/8: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 11th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites are held. Initiates of the Three in One are invited to chant the scriptures. This ritual is organized by the Xianbentang 贤本堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
V466 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting has over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Gu 顾. 3. Village temples Xinlong shangshê 新隆上社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Chenghuang laoye 城隍老爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the villagers go on a pilgrimage to Longshangong 龙山宫 temple to present incense 进香 and to request new incense fire from Tianshang shengmu 请天上圣母香火. On 1/13, the villagers take Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of the Xinlong shangshê 新隆上社 on a procession around the village territory. Opera is performed, and a single Daoist ritual master recites scriptures. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held and opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, where Daoist ritual masters conduct a jiao ritual 道士做醮. These activities are organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫 temple, with the Houting temple paying for at least one day of opera and ritual. Funds for this purpose are raised on a per capita basis as well as via individual donations. 5/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. Daoist ritual masters recite scriptures. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V467 Xishan 西山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 230 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yang 杨. The other surname groups are the Dai 戴 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples Wan’anshê 万安社 was originally built in Guangxu 3 (1877) and was rebuilt in 1993. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense procession 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/12, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and the gods of Wananshê 万安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. On 1/13, villagers send off the Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to Longshangong 龙山宫. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 9/17: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V468 Wushi 乌石 1. Village settlement The entire village of Wushi has only 160 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Wushi zushê 乌石祖社 (Yihushê 壹壶社): Main god: imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Yushu tianzun 玉枢天尊, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Weiwu shenghou 威武圣侯, Liujiangjun 柳将军, Jinjiangjun 金将军, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Lü Dongbing 吕洞宾, Li Tieguai 李铁拐, Panguan 判官, Jishi 吉使 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙 山宫. Opera is performed, and a Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 8/9: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Beishan 北山 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 440 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. The are also ten households of the Chen 陈 surname group. 3. Village temples Xingfu xinshê 兴福新社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang yuanshuai 吉祥元帅, Dutian dasheng 都天大圣, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 of Longshangong 龙山宫 is invited to go on procession within the village. A presentation of incense 进香 is then made to the Longshangong 龙山宫. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V470 Xincun 新村 1. Village settlement Xincun village includes the Dongzhen village 东圳. The entire village has approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zhong 钟, the Gu 顾, and the Li 李. They emigrated from Xi’an 溪安 and Dongzhen 东圳 respectively. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng dongshê 新丰东社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) The Longxingshê 龙兴社 originally belonged to Dongzhen 东圳. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayang zungong 马洋尊公, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯, Hubu dashen 虎部大神, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 3) Longshangong 龙山宫 was originally built in Qing Jiaqing 8 (1803), and was rebuilt in 1989. In the front hall the main god is the imperially enfeoffed Tianshang shengmu 敕封天上圣母. Secondary gods: Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Mayang shengjun 马洋圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Huban daren 虎斑大人, Wenlai yuanshuai 文赖元帅. The rear hall is a Buddhist hall (fotang) 佛堂. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Shansheng tang 善圣堂: The temple is located on top of Longshan 龙山. Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Left: Weituo 韦陀. Right: Jialan 迦蓝. 4) Feixianyan 飞仙岩: Main gods: (rear) Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊, (front) Xiangong ajiu 仙公阿舅. Secondary gods: Jiuxian 九仙, Deli shifu 德理师傅. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. Incense is presented 进香 at the Longshangong 龙山宫 On 1/13 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童 are invited to go on a procession within the village. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. All these events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. Opera is performed on the Longshan mountain 龙山, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This ritual is organized by the Feixianyan 飞仙岩, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily. 4/1: The birthday celebration of Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 is held. Opera is performed on the Longshan mountain 龙山. This ritual is organized by Shanshengtang 善圣堂, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 10/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Zhenxia 圳下 1. Village settlement Zhenxia village has approximately 500 people. This village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangzhenxia 上圳下 and Xiazhenxia 下圳下. Shangzhenxia has around 200 people, all of whom are the surname Huang. Xiazhenxia has about 300 people, all of whom are the surname You. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups: Huang 黄 and You 游. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng zushê 新丰祖社 (Xiazhenxia): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary god: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 2) Xinfeng xinshê 新丰兴社 ( Shangzhenxia): Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mahou jiangjun 马侯将军. 3) Xianmingfu 显明府: Main god: Kang dage 康大哥. Secondary god: Li erye 李二爷. 4) Xingningmiao 兴宁庙 ( Shangzhenxia 上圳下) is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Wushi tianfei 吴圣天妃 is invited to go on procession within the village. Incense is presented 进香 to the Longshangong 龙山宫. On 1/12 Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is invited to practice the Dao 道 in every household while on a procession around the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed at the Longshangong 龙山宫, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Longshangong 龙山宫. The village is responsible for at least one day of opera. Contributions are either collected on a per capita basis or raised voluntarily 8/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinfengshê 新丰社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. This event is organized by the You 游 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Xinfeng xingshê 新丰兴社 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Daoist master is invited to conduct the ritual. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/13: The birthday celebration of Kang dage 康大哥 is held. Opera is performed for three days, Daoist masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A105 Beida qijing (Beida sevenfold ritual alliance) 北大七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida is located along the northern main channel of the Yangshoubei Irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. The area was part of the Chendun Dagoupu 陈墩大沟铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming the villages of Chendun 陈墩 and Dagou 大沟 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Houyu 后俞, Beigou 北沟, Xizheng 西郑, Gouxia 沟下 and Guandou 宫兜separated off. The total population of the area is over 3000 people, and they are managed by the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê temples into seven ritual territories. Apart from agriculture and lychee trees, the local people also work as carpenters and in shoe manufacturing factories Yanfu zushê 延福祖社, located in Chendun 陈墩 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the territories of the alliance goes to the temple to invite the gods back to their village. Each year the birthday celebration of the gods is organized collectively by the sevenfold ritual alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Beida were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V472 Chendun 陈墩 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 makes up two third of the population while the Yao 姚 makes up one third. The Chen are related to the Chen of Kuokou 阔口陈 and are divided into three branches, of which the third branch has the most people. The Yao emigrated from Changlin 畅林 of Chengjiao 城郊. Each year two Fushou (ritual managers) are selected by rotation according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Yanfu zushê 延福祖社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Gaoshan sheng- Beida sevenfold ritual alliance hou 高山圣侯, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Zhuogong zhoushi 卓公咒师. 2) Xinxian lingong 新显麟宫 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Jiaxinggong 嘉兴宫 is dedicated to Wufu daren 乌府大人. Secondary gods are Sujiangjun 苏将军, Zhengjiangjun 郑将军, Huyi jiangjun 虎夷将军 and Huzhongjun 胡中军. 4) Qingyunmiao 庆云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 is taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 is held. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 9/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Wufu daren 乌府大人 is held. This celebration is organized by the Beida 北大 sevenfold ritual alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the region. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals 
V473 Houlu 后炉 1. Village settlement Houlu was originally called Houyu 后俞. The entire village has more than 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 make up two thirds of the total population while the Luo 罗 makes up one third. The Huang moved to Houlu from Donghuang 东黄 inside of Putian city. The Huang have been in the village for five or six generations. There originally was an ancestral hall, but it was torn down. The Huang of the village are divided into three branches, of which the Qiaotoufang 桥头房 branch has the most people, approximately 210 people. The second branch has the least number of people. The Luo 罗 came to Putian from Hunan province eight or nine generations ago. They claim to have come from Hunan 湖南 province. There was an ancestral hall, but it was torn down. Two Fushou (ritual hosts) are selected each year according to age. 3. Village temples 1) Longpangong 龙攀宫 contains the Wanfushê 万福社: Main gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Kaimingtang 开明堂 includes the Jielingong 捷麟宫: Main gods: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Li daren 李大人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 120 initiates. 3) Jielingong 捷麟宫: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods: Li daren 李大人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhuogong zhoushi 卓公咒师, and Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣侯 go on procession within the village. One Daoist master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The day of Toufu 头福 beginning good fortune is celebrated. Opera is performed. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire shê organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V474 Beijiao 北郊 1. Village settlement Beijiao was originally called Beigou 北沟. The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 makes up 80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Zeng 曾 and the Wu 吴. The Huang 黄 moved from Zhenghuang 郑黄 in Putian. The Huang of the village are divided into four branches: Dingcheng 顶埕, Xiacheng 下埕, Cuohou 厝后, and Goubian 沟边. The number of people in each branch is similar. 3. Village Temples 1) Yangqingong 洋沁宫, Xinanshê 新安社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wushi tianfei 吴圣天妃. 2) Zhumingci 主明祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 go on procession within the village and lanterns are paraded. Two ritual managers are selected on a rotation according to age. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/6: The Toufu celebration 头福 is held with opera. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Spirit mediums are invited to “pick the flower flame” 神童采花 (stand bare-chested in a flaming Roman candle). 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. These events are organized by Zhumingci 主明祠, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 9/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis (4–5RMB per person). The ritual managers rotate into position according to age. Two hosts are selected per year. 
V475 Jiaoxia 郊下 1. Village settlement Jiaoxia was originally Gouxia 沟下. The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group of the Zhuang 庄. The Zhuang had emigrated from Xiadu 下度 of Huian 惠安. The entire village is divided into three lineage branches. Each branch has approximately the same number of people. The ancestral tomb is in Huian 惠安 county. Ritual managers (Fushou) are selected on a rotation basis, according to age, from amongst the elders of the village. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing zushê 隆兴祖社 contains the Beijidian 北极殿: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhufu daren 朱府大人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Minglingong 名麟宫: Main gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods are Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Wuhua tongzi 五花童子 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 are placed in palm sedan chairs 棕轿 and taken on a procession to practice the Dao 道 in every household with Shêlu 社炉. Opera is performed. A single Daoist ritual master 师公 is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V476 Dagou 大沟 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, and the Ou 欧. The Wu have more than 400 people and emigrated from Shangwu 上梧 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Wu are now divided into three branches, namely, the fourth branch, the sixth branch, and the Houmen branch 后门房. The ancestral tomb is near the Shipan water reservoir 石盘水库 of Xitianwei 西天尾. The Lin have more than 200 people. The Lin are now divided into three branches, namely, the second branch, the third branch, and the Houcheng branch 后埕房, of which the Houcheng branch has the most number of people. There used to be an ancestral hall, but it is now a warehouse. It is said that the Lin emigrated from Qiulu 萩芦. The Ou 欧 have more than 200 people. Their origin is unclear. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaohui linggong 昭惠灵宫, Longxing dongshê 隆兴东社 was built in Qing Jiaqing 8 (1803). Main god: Imperially enfeoffed Tianhou shengmu 敕封天后圣母. Secondary gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Yunxiandong 云仙洞 was rebuilt in 1981. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 3) Yixintang 一心堂: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈. 4) Longdetang 隆德堂: Main gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母, Yima furen 姨妈大神. Secondary gods are Shangma dashen 尚妈大神, Baifu daren 白府大人, Huangfu daren 黄府大人 and Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. 5) Xingfumiao 兴福庙 was destroyed in 1958 but was rebuilt in recent years. Main god: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Lin 林 and Ou 欧 invite Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 go on a procession and lanterns are paraded. On 1/14–15, the Wu 吴 invite Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 to go on procession and lanterns are paraded. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianhou shengmu 天后圣母 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the Lin 林 and Ou 欧, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the 吴, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the Lin 林 and the Ou 欧 together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/9: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Opera is performed. The celebration is organized by the Ou 欧, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual organization Ritual managers are appointed, with two from each surname group, and they rotate into positions of responsibility according to age. 
V477 Xizheng 西郑 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Zhang 张, the Huang 黄, and the Zeng 曾. The Zeng has the most people, with more than 200 people. 3. Village temples 1) Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社 was built in Xianfeng period (1851–1861) Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Longxing yishê 隆兴一社 was built in recent years. Main god: Zunzhumingwang 尊主明, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods are Tiansheng shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 3) Xingxun zumiao 兴巡祖庙 was built during the Ming Dynasty. Main god: Yangfu daren 杨府大人. Secondary gods: Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baifu daren 白府大人, Jiangfu daren 江府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, the Chen 陈 and Lin 林 take the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of Longxing shangshê 隆兴上社and the incense burner of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of the Zhaohui linggong temple 昭惠灵宫on a procession to their part of the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/15, the Zhang 张, Zeng 曾 and Huang 黄 take the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of the Longxing yishê 隆兴一社 and the incense burner of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of the Zhaohui linggong temple 昭惠灵宫on a procession around their part of the village. Daoist masters are invited to conduct the rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/8: The birthday celebration of Yangfu daren 杨府大人 is held. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Baifu daren 白府大人 is held. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. This event is co-organized by the Xizheng village together with Tangbian 塘边 village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis in both villages. 4/24: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is also co-organized by Xizheng 西郑 village and Tangbian 塘边 village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis from both villages. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Jiangfu daren 江府大人 is held. 11/1: The birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. 5. Ritual groups The ritual managers are the elderly of the village who take turns according to age. 
A106 Shanghuang ershê (Shanghuang two shê ritual alliance) 上黄二社 The two shê alliance of Shannghuang 上黄 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Shanghuangpu (police/self defense unit) of Rendeli subcanton 仁德里. In the Qing, the village of Shanghuang was settled. Currently the village population is over 1200 people. Shanghuang is managed by the Beida Administrative Village. 北大行政村. The local ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê altars. The main local surname group is the Lin 林, with roughly 90% of the village population. The remainder are members of the Huang surname group 黄. The Lin moved to the village from Hanjiang Shuangfu Duxia 涵江双福渡下. Their lineage is divided into three large branches. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the two shê of Shanghuang were both part of the black banner alliance. 
A106 Shanghuang two shê ritual alliance 
V478 Shanghuang 上黄 1. Village settlement Shanghuang is part of the Beida Administrative Village 北大行政村. The entire village has approximately 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group, the Lin 林, makes up more than 90% of the total population. Other surnames include the Huang 黄. The Lin emigrated from Shuangfu 双福 (Duxia 渡下) of Hanjiang 涵江. The Lin of the village are now divided into three branches: the sixth branch, Dingcuo 顶厝, and Citangbian 祠堂边. The latter makes up 40% of the total population. 3. Village temples 1) Chongdeshê 崇德社: This temple was originally owned by the Huang 黄, but since the shê of the Lin 林 had collapsed, the Lin combined their shê with that of the Huang. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 (four statues). Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 (two statues), Zhang gong 张公 (two statues), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (two statues). 2) Shuanghuangjing chongdeshê 上黄境崇德社 belongs to the Lin 林. This temple was rebult in 1996. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Dugong yuanshuai 杜公元帅. 3) Kaizhengmiao 开正庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Yima furen姨妈夫人, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Lanfu daren 兰府大人, Xiefu dashen 谢府大神 and Huye 虎爷. 4) Taizimiao 太子庙: Main god: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Lin 林 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Lin portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the Lin surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15 the Huang 黄 invite Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 to go on procession within the Huang portion of the village territory. Opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/1: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/12: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. The birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Yima furen 姨妈夫人 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the whole village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtufuren 后土夫人 is held. This event is organized by the Huang 黄 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/21: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. This event is organized by the Lin 林 surname group, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Ritual managers rotate into responsibility for management of annual celebrations according to age. 4/24: 
A107 Qibu qijing (Qibu sevenfold ritual alliance) 七步七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Qibu is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Qibupu 七步铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming the village of Qibu 七步村 was settled, and in the Qing the villages of Paohudun 袍笏墩 (Caoqiaotou 草桥头), Shanglindun 上林墩, Goudong 沟东, Gouxi 沟西, Guodun 郭墩 and Toudun 头墩 separated off. In the late Qing the villages of Zhuxiang朱衖 and Zhengdun 郑墩 have been settled. All these villages are managed by the Qibu Administrative Village 七步行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to shê altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. These are locally known as the sevenfold ritual alliance of the eight mounds 七境八墩. The Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社, located in Shanlindun 上林墩 village, is the founding shê-temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance must start its own procession of the gods from this temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Qibu was part of the black banner alliance. 
V479 Zhuxiang 朱衖 1. Village settlement Zhuxiang includes Qianzhi (Guodun) 前至 (郭墩). The population of Zhuxiang is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhu 朱. Secondary surname groups are Li 李, Wu 吴 and Guo 郭. Qibu sevenfold ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Longxingshê 龙兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianjimiao 显迹庙: The main god is Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. Secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Baiyundong 白云洞: The main god is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Liewei shaoye 列位少爷, Jin daren 金大人, Bai daren 白大人, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, gods of Longxingshê 龙兴社 are invited to practice the Dao 道 in every household and to go on a procession within the territory by the Guo 郭in Qianzhi 前至. On 1/15–16, the gods of the Longxingshê 龙兴社 go on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 8/26: The birthday celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by the Guo 郭 of Qianzhi 前至. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V480 Zhengdun 郑墩 1. Village settlement Zhengdun was originally called Toudun 头墩. Zhengdun village includes the area known as Xiting 西亭. The population of Zhengdun is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qingzi beishê 青紫北社 was originally built during the early Ming. According to local legend, Emperor Zhengde 正德皇帝 painted a bat on the temple wall during his trip to Jiangnan, thus there are no mosquitoes in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Heyitan 合一坛: The main god is Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Chen dage 陈大哥, Zhang dage 张大哥, Li dage 李大哥, Liu dage 刘大哥, Jin daren 金大人, Hong daren 洪大人, and Lan daren 兰大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to practice the Dao in every household and to go on a procession within the village. On 1/16–17, Shêlu 社炉 incense burners of the temple are taken to each household to practice the Dao 道. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/4: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 11/24: The birthday celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V481 Chaiqiaotou 柴桥头 1. Village settlement The population of Chaiqiaotou is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Sun 孙 and the Zheng 郑. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qingzi nanshê 青紫南社 (located in Zhengdun 郑墩): The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Baolingong 保麟宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Jufengting 聚峰亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4) Zhongshantang 中山堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 10/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V482 Shanglindun 上林墩 1. Village settlement The population of Shanglindun is approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shi 施, Li 李, and 陈 Chen. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu liesheng 文武 列圣. 2) Xianzhengong 显镇宫: Local legend has it that that the emperor (Huangdi 皇帝) lived here during the Pingmin shibadong military campaign 平闽十八 洞 (a series of magical battles to pacify Fujian). The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Feifu daren 飞府大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16–17 the gods of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 are taken on a procession within the village. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Between 1/28–2/4, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东 village goes on procession through the villages of Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the three villages. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 11/20: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V483 Jiaodong 郊东 1. Village settlement Jiaodong was originally called Goudong 沟东. The population of Jiaodong is approximately 1800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wu 吴 and the Lin 林. Other surnames include the Fang 方 and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 contains the altars of the Funingshê 福宁社, the Fuanshê 福安社, and the Changfushê 长福社 (belonging to Jiaoxi 郊西 village): This temple was built in 1404, rebult in 1685 and again in 1987, and was rebuilt and expanded in 2004. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Wang lingguan 王灵官 (Fujishen 扶乩神—a god who possesses spirit mediums). 3) Ruilingong 瑞霖宫: The main gods are Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Yuqingci 玉清祠 (belongs to the Wu 吴): The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:6 records 77 initiates. 5) Humingci 湖明祠 (belongs to the Lin 林): The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 of Funing shê 福宁社 go on procession to Xu 许 households. This is organized by the Xu surname group. On 1/11, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Xiaowu 小吴 and Xu 许 households. This is organized by the Xiaowu 小吴 residents. On 1/12, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Qianwu 前吴 and Houwu 后吴 households. These events are organized by the Qianwu 前吴 and Houwu 后吴 residents. On 1/14, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Fang households 方. This is organized by the Fang 方. On 1/15, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社 go on procession to Lin 林 households. This is organized by the Lin 林. On 1/20, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. The gods of Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 go on procession within the village. Between 1/28–2/4, on a day determined by divination, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Zhongxinggong temple 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong village 郊东 goes on a procession through Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 8/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê 福安社. The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Funingshê 福宁社. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites. The events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê temples and their communities, and funds are raised on a per capita basis and/or by voluntary contributions. 9/3: 
V484 Jiaoxi 郊西 1. Village settlement Jiaoxi was originally called Gouxi 沟西. The population of Jiaoxi is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Wei 魏 and the Guo 郭. 3. Village temples Changfushê 长福社 is located in the Zhongxing gong 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东). Guanyinting 观音亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 2) Deshantang 德善堂 was built in 1926 (PTZJZCG, 1992:198). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Changfushê 长福社 go on procession to Chen 陈 households. This is organized by the Chen. On 1/18, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Changfushê 长福社 go on procession to Wei 魏 and Guo 郭 households. This is organized by the Wei and Guo surname groups. Between 1/28–2/4, on a day determined by divination, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫 of Jiaodong 郊东 goes on a procession through Jiaodong 郊东, Jiaoxi 郊西, and Shanglindun 上林墩. These events are organized by the Zhongxinggong 忠兴宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On all the above occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/15: The birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 6/19: The birthday celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V485 Paohudun 袍笏墩 1. Village settlement The population of Paohudun is approximately 1000 people. This village is divided into the Houcuo 后厝, Xiacheng 下埕 and Xiadun 下墩 neighborhoods. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Huang 黄 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxingshê 新兴社 originally had a wooden plaque 匾 inscribed by Wen Tianxiang 文天祥, but it was destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong tiashi 杨公太师, Wuxian dadi 五显大帝, Zouma sheren 走马舍人, and Zhuzi shengjun 朱紫圣君. 2) Zhenglingong 正麟宫: The main god is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Yima furen 姨妈夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Li daren 李大人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Lufu shaoye 鲁府少爷 and Li jiangjun 李将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, gods of Xinxingshê 新兴社 are taken by Houcuo 后厝 to every one of its household to practice the Dao and then go on a procession within the village. On 1/15, the gods of Xinxingshê 新兴社 go on procession within the village. On 2/1 Toufu 头福 is celebrated. On these days, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/11: The birthday celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 8/11: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A108 Wujiang sishê (Wujiang four shê ritual alliance) 吴江四社 
V486 Wujiang 吴江) 1. Village settlement Wujiang was originally known as Wudao 吴刀. The village is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Wudaopu 吴刀铺 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming, the village was already settled. The current population is approximately 3700 people. The village is both a natural village and an Administrative Village. The temple ritual system is divided mainly on the basis of lineage into four shê. The four shê are the Zhongxingshê 忠兴祖社, the Dongshê 东社, the Lishê 里社, and the Nanshê 南社. The Chongshengmiao 崇圣庙 is the main 
A108 Wujiang four shê ritual alliance temple of the four shê alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê ritual alliance of Wujiang was part of the red banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The first settlers were the Wu 吴. Now, the main surname groups are the Zeng 曾, the Zhan 詹, the Yang 杨. Minor surname groups include the Lin 林, the Huang 黄, and the Jiang 江. The Zeng make up one third of the total population, the Zhan make up another third, and the Yang make up one quarter. The Zeng are divided into four lineage branches, of which the first branch has the most people, making up one third of the total number. The third branch has the least number of people, having only one household. There is currently a Zeng ancestral hall 曾姓祠堂 which was build during the Qing, and is used during the Yuanxiao festival 元宵 and during marriage ceremonies. The ancestral tombs are in Shangfeng 上峰 of Xitianwei 西天尾. The Zhan are divided into three lineage branches, of which the first branch has the most people, making up almost a third of the total number. There is an ancestral hall and ancestral tombs. The Yang are also divided into three lineage branches, of which the second branch has the most people, making up approximately 40–50% of the total number. 3. Village temples 1) The Wujiangjing Chongshengmiao 吴江境崇圣庙 was rebuilt in 1992. The main god: Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Secondary gods: Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Heshi xianshi 和氏先师, Liu xiansheng 刘先生. 2) Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 and Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社: This joint temple is co-owned by the Zeng 曾 and the Zhan 詹. The temple was rebuilt in 1989. The Zhongxing zushê (belonging to the Zhan 詹) main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社 (belonging to the Zeng 曾) main gods are a different pair of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社: Co-owned by the Jiang 江, Huang 黄, and the Lin 林, this temple was rebuilt in 1991. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fuying shenghou 孚应圣侯, Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 4) Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社: the temple is owned by the Yang 杨. The temple was originally taken over by the village commune (gongxiaoshê 供 销社), but now it has been restored. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Qingming shuyuan 清明书院: Also called Qingmingtang 清明堂, the temple was built in 1982. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Secondary gods: (left altar) Zhang sanfeng 张三峰, (right altar) Zhuo zhenren 卓真人; left corridor: Chen Zhida 陈智达, Liang Puyao 梁普耀. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 145 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhan 詹 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/11–12, the Zeng 曾 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/13, the Yang 杨 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, the Chen 陈 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/15, the Huang 黄, Jiang 江, and Lin 林 take lanterns on a procession around their territory. On 1/15, each surname group of the village hang up lanterns in their own shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. On 1/28, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held. Sima shengwang 司马圣王 of Chongshengmiao temple 崇圣庙 is invited to go on procession within the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/8: The birthday celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. A jinxiang 进香 presentation of incense pilgrimage is made to the Lingyundian 凌云殿 on Hugong Mountain. This event is organized by the Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/7: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/8–9: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Jiang 江, Huang 黄, and Lin 林 of Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/11–12: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by the Zeng 曾 of Zhongxing dongshê 忠兴东社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/13–15: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Zhan 詹 of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 6th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾 are each responsible for one day, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/16: The birthday celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held . Opera is performed. This event is organized by Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. Opera is performed. This event is organized by the Yang 杨 of the Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 8th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of Heshi xianshi 和氏先师 is held. Opera is performed for two days. The Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾 are each responsible for one day, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/7: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Zhongxing nanshê 忠兴南社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Yang 杨, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing zushê 忠兴祖社 and Dongshê 东社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is co-organized by the Zhan 詹 and the Zeng 曾, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Zhongxing lishê 忠兴里社 is held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Jiang 江, the Huang 黄, and the Lin 林, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 11/3: Xiayuan pudu 下元普度. Marionette plays are performed. The Three in One ritual is organized by the Qingming shuyuan 清明书院, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. 
A109 Daili qijing (Daili sevenfold ritual alliance) 埭里七境 The Daili sevenfold village alliance is located at the intersection of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation 太平陂. This region was part of the Yishan shanglinpu 依山上林舖 and the Lüdongpu 吕洞铺 (police/defense unit) of Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the Ming, the village of Lüdai 吕埭 was settled, but by the early Qing it had divided into the villages of Shanglindai 上林埭. Lindai 林埭, Xiadun 霞墩, Xikou 溪口, Youqiaotou 游桥头, Xijiangbian 西江边, Qianhuangdai 前黄埭, and Caidai 蔡埭. In the late Qing the villages of Xiacheng 下澄, and Xiagao 下高 
A109 Daili sevenfold ritual alliance separated off. These villages are all managed by the Daili Administrative Village 埭里行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of shê altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. The Qiantanggong 钱塘宫 temple, located in Qianhuang village 前黄村, is the main temple of the seven village alliance 七境总宫. The main god of the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Each year with an intercalary lunar month, the god is carried on a procession to each of the villages in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance was originally part of the red banner alliance, but later the villages of Xikou 溪口 and Xiagao 下高 joined the white banner alliance. 
V487 Shanglin 上林 1. Village settlement The total village population is over 750 people living in 140 households. The main livelihood is agriculture, lychee trees, and some fishing. Formerly, when racing dragon boats, the village raised a red banner to indicate that it was neutral in the conflicts between black and white banner alliances at the end of the Qing. 2. Surname groups It is said that the Wu 吴 surname group was originally the dominant one in the village, making its living by making pottery, but that they later moved to Danwei village in Tantou 塘头潭尾, and that the Lin 林 also moved to an outside village. Currently, the Weng 翁 make up 90% of the village population. There are also some households of the Huang 黄, one of the Zheng 郑, the Chen 陈 and the Wu 吴 have only one old man left. The Weng came from the northern part of Wutang, from Dongpo village 北梧塘东坡村. It is said that the first Weng to come to Shanglin village married a daughter of the Lin and had two sons. The eldest was surnamed Lin, but died young. The second took the Weng surname, and lived on in Shanglin, becoming the founding ancestor of the Weng of the village. Now the Weng have divided into three lineage branches, called Fu 福, Lu 禄 and Shou 寿三大房. The Fu branch has about 30 households, the Lu branch has 80, and the Lu branch has 25. The Weng ancestral hall is still extant, and the founding ancestor Master Jihua 季华公, the second generation ancestor Master Chenghou 二世祖诚厚公 along with the third generation branch founders Master Duxin 三世祖笃心公, Master Yangxin 养心公, and Master Tingxin 汀心公 are all worshipped in this hall. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglinjing Longboshê 上林境龙波社 was repaired in 1983. In the middle altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴胜天妃. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Xinglonggong 兴隆宫 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the left altar is Tanhuafu Tiangong yuanshuai 探花府田公元帅 (there was formerly a spirit medium often possessed by this god), Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Puji shengshou 普济圣侯, Heihu dajiang 黑虎大将, the Baban zaoli 八班皂隶. On the left altar which is referred to as the Fulin xinggong 绂麟行宫 are found Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Huang sheren 黄舍人, Bai sheren白舍人, Wuhua tongzi 五花童子, Lufu shaoye 鲁府少爷. In the front of the temple there are altars for Xie daye 谢大爷 on the left, and Fan erye 范二爷 on the right. 3) Jieshengtang 捷圣堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records ten initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 villagers go the temple to pray for blessings 上元祈福. On 1/16 Wushi tianfei 吴氏天妃 is invited to go on a tour of inspection procession throughout the village. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the rituals. One holds the incense burner, one holds the god statue, and two hold the great lanterns. Daoist masters are invited to recite scriptures. Birthday celebrations of the gods Early in the second lunar month, the first opera of the year 头条戏 is performed for two to three days. 7/16: The celebration of Wushi tianfei 吴氏天妃. Opera is performed for two or three days. 9/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 (known colloquially as Shêgong and Shêma 社公社妈). All the gods are invited to watch opera for three to seven days. Each day rituals are held three times, and are conducted by Daoist ritual masters. In the 10th lunar month, the Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance 下元普渡 are performed. Every three years a more elaborate Lanpen 兰盆 ritual is held in which the lamps of longevity 寿灯 are burned. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no mediums, Daoist master, or opera troupes. Each Yuanxiao, they invite Daoists and opera troupes to perform in the village. There is a Three in One temple called the Jieshengtang 捷圣堂 which was rebuilt in 1983. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Secondary gods include Beijidian Xuantian shangdi 北极殿玄天上帝 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Each year on 10/15, five tables of offerings of fruit and tea are prepared for the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The Three in One initiates recite the scripture of offering of tea each day in the morning and evening, and on the first and fifteenth of each month they recite the Scripture of the Three Sages. Xiadun 下墩 1. Village settlement The village of Xiadun has a population of over 800 people living in over 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by lychee trees and fishing. According to local legend, the deep channel behind the village was known as the Turtle Channel, and was the lair of a turtle demon. Every time the weather changed, he would rise up out of his hole and float on the surface of the water. Then he would gobble up the spirits of the men of the neighboring village of Loutou 漏头, causing them to wither and decline. Later a geomancer destroyed the turtle, and its corpse floated to the surface. Thus in the channel there formed a small islet surrounded by water, where the village of Xiadun 下墩 formed. Currently the village sets up a red banner when they race their dragon boats. 2. Surname groups The village is made up of only the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. The Xiadun Lin came from Shanglin village, while the Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 outside Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Xiadunjing Longboshê 下墩境龙波社 branched off from the Shanglin Longboshê 上林龙波社. In 1982, the Singapore Overseas Chinese Lin Wenqi 林文棋 and Lin Jinsuo 林金锁 repaired the temple. On the main altar is Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土人人, to the left are Wencao 文曹 (civil ministers) and to the right Wupan 武判 (military officers). 2) Anhuaigong 安怀宫 was built in the Qing Qianlong period (1736– 1795) and restored in 1985. Inscriptions on the temple commemorate the contributions of Overseas Chinese from Singapore. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Left altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the Lin 林 pray for good fortune上元祈福. On 1/14 the Chen 陈 pray for good fortune 上元祈福; and on 1/15, they invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 to go on a procession of inspection and seal the roadways 出巡封路. Each year eight Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility for the management of the rituals. Daoist ritual masters are invited to recite scriptures and conduct a jiao 念经做醮. As an old saying goes, “Gong 公, Ma 妈 and Hou 侯 got under way together.” Eight ritual managers are selected in rotation according to age. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct the rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/25–26: The first opera of the year 头条戏 is performed. 2/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for one day. In the fourth lunar month the celebration of Heaven and Earth is held and there is opera for two days. 8/8: The celebration of Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 is held, with opera for five to six days. 5. Ritual Groups There are no Daoists, Tanban altar association, spirit mediums, or opera or marionette troupes in the village. At Yuanxiao, Daoist masters are invited in from outside villages, and Buddhist monks are invited in to perform the xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance (in the 10th lunar month). On the birthdays of the gods, opera troupes or marionette troupes are invited in to perform. Originally, the goddess Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃 would possess a spirit medium and transmit messages via planchette but this tradition has diminished in recent years. In 1960 the spirit medium went to Singapore to the Anhuaigong 安怀宫 there at the invitation of Lin Wenqi 林文棋, a Singapore Overseas Chinese. There he continues to transmit the messages of the goddess. The village has a Three in One temple called Liuyetang 六也堂 (also called the Liuye shuyuan 六也书院) dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods to the left are Sanjiao faye 三教法爷, and to the right, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Rituals are held in the temple on the first and fifteenth of every month. The village also has a Buddhist nunnery called the Chongde’an 崇德庵 managed by a nun and dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 
V489 Xikou 溪口 1. Village settlement The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by lychee trees, livestock, and jobs for women in shoe manufacturing factories. During the inter-village struggles of the late Qing, the village shifted from being a red banner to allying with the white banner villages. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 make up about 50% of the village population, and the Cheng 程 make up 40%. In addition there are some Luo 罗 and Chen 陈 households, about ten each. The Zheng came to the village from Chenmendou 辰门兜 in Putian city. The Cheng 程氏 were originally the sons-in-law of the Zheng, and thus stayed on to live in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Xikoujing Longbo xinshê 溪口境龙波新社 is dedicated to Chifeng shengwang 敕封圣王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Shu daren 署大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5 the first opera of the year is performed 演头条戏. On 1/11, the Cheng 程 take the gods on a procession. On 1/14 the Zheng 郑 take the gods on procession. On 1/15 the Luo 罗 and the Chen 陈 take the gods on procession. On each occasion four palm sedan chairs are carried on procession, with seats for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On each of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village has spirit mediums but no Tanban altar association. The gods who possess the mediums are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shu daren 署大人. The Three in One temple is called Xingbentang 兴本堂, and it is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 
V490 Youqiaotou 游桥头 1. Village settlement The village of Youqiaotou includes the two neighborhoods of Youqiaotou 游桥头 and Xiahuang 下黄. The population of the village is approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in Youqiaotou is the Chen 陈. There are also the You 游, the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林 and the Wu 吴. Xiahuang is entirely made up of Chen households. The Chen came to the village from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口 and are of the same Chen lineage as the Chen of Xizhuang 西庄陈氏. The Zheng 郑氏 moved to the village from Daicheng 岱埕 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Longbo dongshê 龙波东社 was repaired in 1984. On the main altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left altar: Zhougong yuanshuai 周公元帅, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃. Other gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Xiao zhongjun 肖中军. 2) Xieyitang 协义堂 was rebuilt in 1946. The main god is Huofeng shenghou 火风圣侯. Left altar: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Right altar: Zhougong yuanshuai 周公元帅. 3) Wanshanting 万善亭 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 there is a procession of the gods in Youqiaotou 游桥头 to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in every household. On 1/15 the same thing takes place in Xiahuang 下黄. On 1/17 the entire village does a joint procession, opera is performed, and one Daoist ritual master is invited to conduct rites. Four palm sedan chairs go on procession, carrying Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. Each year four Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility for the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Huofeng shenghou 火风圣侯. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 10/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis, 2 yuan per person. 5. Ritual groups The village Three in One temple is the Genbentang 根本堂, which was restored in 1992, and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 
V491 Caidai dongzhi 蔡埭东至 1. Village settlement The village of Caidai dongzhi has a population of approximately 730 people, living in around 160 households. The main livelihood is agriculture, supplemented by growing lychees, fishing, handicrafts, and a small number involved in commerce. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. There are also minor surname groups such as the Su 苏, the Cai 蔡 and the Zhuo 卓. The Huang 黄 came from Huangxiang in Hanjiang 涵江黄巷 (Huangxia village 黄霞村). The Chen came from Kuokou near Putian 阔口. 3. Village temples 1) Lüdongpu caidaijing Shengxing dongshê 吕洞铺 蔡埭境盛兴东社 has the following main gods on the central altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Liugong shengjun 刘公圣君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Wuhu jialuo 五虎迦罗, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Guanhu jiangjun 管虎将军, Wencao wupan 文曹武判, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Liu xiangu 柳仙姑, Li xiangu 李仙姑. Perched high above the altar: Beijidian Xuantian shangdi 北极殿玄天上帝. 2) Bigaoci 陛高祠 is dedicated to Hou daren 侯大人 (who has hereditary spirit mediums), Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Fu daren 傅大人, Baoling zhongjun 保令中军, Yangfu zhongjun 杨府中军, Wei zhongjun 惟中军, Fa zhong jun 法中军. Left altar: Lingshantan Nezha taizi 灵山坛哪咤太子. Right altar: Wanfumiao Baidaren 万福庙白大人 (who possesses spirit mediums). 3) Mingyitang 明义堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 record 120 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福 and take lanterns on a procession. They invite Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 in a large sedan chair, and five smaller palm sedan chairs are prepared for Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 1/14 at night the palm sedan chairs leap over a bonfire, and the Fushou 福首 invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/15 Taiyi xiangu delivers incense 走香 from the Yongxing xishê 永星 西社 to each household. The roads to the village are ritually sealed, Daoist rites are held, and the temple doors are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation. Three of them carry the incense burners, and the fourth carries a tray of offerings to the goddess. The procession includes 24 members of a drum and cymbal woman’s music troupe, one large banner carrier, four middle sized banner carriers, two people to carry the great drum, and two to carry smaller drums, two to carry great lanterns, and two to carry “earth lanterns”, two more to carry “peace lanterns”, a Daoist ritual master, one person carrying the goddess’ umbrella, and two people to set of firecracker guns along the route of the procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/20: The celebration of Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/17: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/20: The celebration of Hou daren 侯大人. On each of these occasions, the Fushou arrange for tables of offerings to be set out in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to recite scriptures and conduct rites. Opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis, at a rate of 1.50 yuan per person. 
V492 Caidai xizhi 蔡埭西至 1. Village settlement The village of Caidai xizhi has 524 people living in 116 households. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Cheng 程 and the Lin 林. There are also fourteen households of the Xiao 萧, and five households of the Cai 蔡, and a few outside households of Zou 邹 and Li 李. 3. Village temples 1) Caidaijing Yongxing xishê 蔡埭境永兴西社 is divided into the upper and lower temple halls. The temple is said to be an ancient shê temple from the Song which was rebuilt in the Qianlong period (1736–1975), expanded in the Republican period, and rebuilt again in 1989. The temple couplets read: “ During Yuanxiao follow the ancient rites, under the moon take lanterns on procession to the eastern and western shê altars. The Nuo exorcism shines on every year, we pray for good fortune and peace for every household, large and small.” The front central altar is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qiu dutong 邱都统, Liu dotung 刘都统, Chen dutong 陈都统, Zheng dutong 郑都统. The back central altar is dedicated to Sima shengwang 司马圣王. Left altar: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 2) Bikedong 陛科洞 is dedicated to Hou daren 侯大人. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Right altar: Fude zhengsheng 福德正神, Baoling zhongjun 保令中军, Yangfu zhongjun 杨府中军, Fa zhongjun 法中军, Wei zhongjun 惟中军, and Shenggong 圣公. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福 and go on a procession with lanterns. They invite Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 to sit in a large sedan chair, and five smaller palm sedan chairs are prepared for Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 1/12 at night the palm sedan chairs leap over a bonfire, and the Fushou 福首 invite Daoist ritual masters to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. On 1/13 incense 走香 from the Shengxing dongshê 盛兴东社 is taken to each household. The roads to the village are ritually sealed, Daoist rites are held, and the temple doors are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/1: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 8/20: The celebration of Hou daren 侯大人. 11/2–3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 and the Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. On each of these occasions opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups The Deqingan 德清庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and is tended by a Buddhist nun. 
V493 Qianhuang 前黄 1. Village settlement The village of Qianhuang has over 700 people, and is divided into five neighborhoods: Weicuo 尾厝, Qiancuo 前厝, Dapo 大坡, Geqiao 隔桥, and Houcuo 后厝. The main livelihood is farming, and the community is rather poor. 2. Surname groups This village is a mixed surname village. In Weicuo 尾厝 the Zheng 郑 are dominant. There is a Zheng ancestral hall called the Chaoyici 郑氏朝议祠, and there are also several households surnamed Weng 翁. In Qiancuo 前厝 the Lin 林 are dominant. In Dapo 大坡 the main surnames are Huang 黄 and Chen 陈. In Geqiao 隔桥 there are the Wu 吴, the Chen 陈, the Zhuo 卓, the Huang 黄 and the Zeng 曾 surnames. In Houcuo there is only the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Qiantanggong 钱塘境钱塘宫 contains the altar of the Anrenshê 安仁社. The temple has a front and a back hall, and is the main overall temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. A stele from Tongzhi 1 (1862) and a record of ritual sacrifices to the gods have been preserved. Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is housed in a niche above the altar, the central alter is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The left altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The right altar: Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Qianhuangjing Fulin xinggong 前黄境绂麟行宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 (Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人). The left altar: Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘, Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘, Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. Right altar: Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Erwei haier 二位 孩儿, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. On the front altars of the temple are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 3) Yilantan 旖兰坛 is in Houhuang 后厝 and is dedicated to Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘, Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘 and Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the Weicuo Zheng 尾厝郑 take the incense burners of the temple to carry out the Dao 行道 in their neighborhood. On 1/11 the Qiancuo Lin前厝林 do the same. On 1/12 the Dapo Huang and Lin 大坡黄, 林 do the same. On 1/13 the Geqiao Wu, Zhuo, Zeng, Chen, and Huang 隔桥吴, 卓, 曾, 陈, 黄 do the same. On 1/14 the Houcuo Lin 后厝林 do the same as well. On 1/16 the villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福, and take the gods in palm sedan chairs and leap through a bonfire. Daoists are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 of the village are selected by drawing lots. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Qiancuo 前厝 performs opera for two days. Each year there is an intercalary month, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 go on a procession throughout the entire sevenfold (actually nine) village alliance. 5/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The entire village sponsors opera performances for two days. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The entire village sponsors opera performances for two days. 9/6: The celebration of Tangshi yima 汤氏姨妈. Opera is performed for two days in Houcuo 后厝. 9/26: The celebration of Lishi niangniang 李氏娘娘 and Liushi niangniang 柳氏娘娘. Opera is performed for two days in Houcuo 后厝. 
V494 Xiacheng 下澄 1. Village settlement Xicheng was originally called Xiading 下丁. The village of Xiacheng has over 400 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, supplemented by raising eels, stone-cutting, and women working in shoe factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups in the village are the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Zheng 郑. The Wu moved to the village from Wutang Youqiaotou 梧塘游桥头. 3. Village temples 1) Xaichengjing Longpo lishê 下澄境龙坡里社 was restored in 1992. The main gods on the central altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Cai daren 蔡大人. 2) Baodingtang 保定堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 (Zhonglie dayuanshuai 忠烈大元帅) and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 3) Zongdean 宗德庵 was built in 1990, and is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Left altar: Weituo 韦陀, right altar: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, who go on a tour of inspection procession around the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the third month, on a day determined by divination, a celebration of Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 is held and the first opera of the year is performed for two days . 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Opera is performed for two days. In the ninth month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days. Xiagao 下高 1. Village settlement The village of Xiagao has a population of 410 people. The main livelihood is farming, but many young women work in shoe factories. In the struggles between the banner alliances, the village first was neutral (red banner), but later tended towards the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups There are four main surnames in the village, the Wei 魏, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, and the Zheng 郑. The Lin claim to descend from the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. The Chen 陈 moved to the village from Anren Xiajiang 安仁霞江. 3. Village temples 1) Xiagaojing Longposhê 下高境龙波社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Linshui furen 临水夫人. 2) Zixiadian 紫霞殿 was rebuilt in 1942 and is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 and Tiankui yuanshuai 天魁元帅. Left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗. Right altar: Zhuogong shenghou 卓公圣侯 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the gods are welcomed back from heaven and opera is performed for two days. On 1/13–14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君 go on a procession around the village. Five Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year four Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility for the ritual activities of the year. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and opera is performed for two days. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two days. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and each time every person in the village provides 3 yuan. 
A110 Shuanggu sancun (Shanggu three-village ritual alliance) 双福三村 The Shuangfu three village ritual alliance 双福三村 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北 大沟. This region originally belonged to the Ketang Shangguo pu 柯塘上 郭舖 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Qing dynasty, the villages of Shangguo 上郭, Qianting 前亭 and Ketang 柯塘 and Shucan 书仓 (Yuzuang 俞庄) were settled. These villages are now managed by the Shuangfu 双福 and Ketang Administrative Villages 柯塘二行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of settlements and lineage into a three village ritual alliance. 
A110 Shangfu three village ritual alliance The Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 of Qianting 前亭 is the founding shê altar 祖社 for the three village alliance. The Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 (founding shê) is also called the Mazugong 妈祖宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The temple was first built in Qing Daoguang 28 (1848), and has been rebuilt in recent years. The founding shê has branched out into four second generation shê, each named for one of the directions: the eastern Dongshê 东社 is in the villages of Yuzhuang 俞庄, the western Xishê 西社 is in Ketang 柯塘, the southern Nanshê 南社 is in Qianting 前亭, and the northern Beishê 北社 belongs to the Guo lineage of Beigang 北港郭氏. Currently, because the population of Yuzhuang has diminished, the eastern shê 东社 no longer is extant. In addition, Shangguo 上郭 village, which originally belonged to the Xianyinshê 显应社 system, currently is participates in the ritual activities of the Xingfushê 兴福社 instead. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in turn goes on procession to the Xingfu zushê to invite the gods. On 1/9–10, Qianting 前亭 invites the gods. On 1/9–11, Shangguo 上郭 invites the gods. On 1/13–15, Ketang 柯塘 invites the gods. On 1/16, the Xingfu founding zushê 兴福祖社 holds a general Yuanxiao celebration, and each village takes turns sponsoring opera and Daoist ritual masters are invited to the founding shê to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. On the occasion of each god’s birthday celebration (i.e., 2/23–25 for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣; 3/23–25 for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母; and 9/28–10/4 for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人), each village takes turns sponsoring opera at the temple. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Shuangfu were part of the red banner alliance. 
V496 Shangguo 上郭 1. Village settlement Shangguo was originally called Shangge 上阁. Shangguo is part of the Shuangfu Administrative Village 双福行政村. The village has a population of approximately 1000 people living in about 200 households. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by fishing, and local shipping. Formerly, when holding dragon boat races, the village hoisted a red banner, indicating neutrality in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The sole surname in the village is Guo 郭. Up to the nineteenth generation, the Guo lineage still lived in Weitang Guozhuang 魏塘郭庄. Only in the 20th generation did some members of the lineage move to Shangge 上阁 (Shangguo 上郭). Nowadays, there are Guo surname groups in several nearby villages such as Shangguo 上郭, Beigang 北港, Zhu- zhuang 朱庄, and Qianting 前亭. There is a Guo ancestral hall where various lineage branches return to reassemble the linage. 3. Village temples 1) Shanggejing Xianyingmiao 上阁境显应庙 is the main overall temple of Shangguo 上郭 and is also the main temple of the Guo lineage in Beigang village 北港郭氏总宫. The temple was built in the Ming, and rebuilt in the Qing Qianlong and Daoguang periods. It was restored in 1983. The temple preserves stelae from Qing Qianlong 57 (1792) and Daoguang 16 (1836). The main altar is dedicated to: Imperially enfeoffed Zunzhu mingwang 敕封尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太 师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘. To the left is Yingji houwang 英济侯王 and to the right Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The temple also preserves a stele composed in Qianlong 50 (1785) entitled 显应庙社租序 (Preface on the rents contributed to the Temple and Shê-altar of Manifest Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:260, No. 223). 2) Fengshan zumiao 凤山祖庙 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. To the left are Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Wen yuanshuai 温元帅, Gao yuanshuai 高元帅, and Song yuanshuai 宋元帅. To the right are Zhao yuanshuai 赵元帅, Kang yuanshuai 康元帅, Zhong yuanshuai 钟元帅, Yang yuanshuai 杨元帅, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The temple plaque is from Qing Guangxu 10 (1884). 3) Jianhu shuyuan 鉴湖书院 was built in Qing Qianlong 58 (1793), and is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. To the left is Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君 and to the right Luer baomu 鹿儿 保母. 4) Chuanmingting 传名亭 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang daye 张大爷, Sun erye 孙二爷 and Ma jiangjun 马将军. 5) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Tiandijun xinshi 天地君新师. On the left is Liang Puyao 梁普耀 and on the right Chen Zhida 陈志达. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records forty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, five palm sedan chairs are prepared for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘 who go on a procession around the village, assisted by the former year’s Fushou 老福首. On 1/16 the villages take turns hosing the general Yuanxiao celebration at the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社. The set up elaborate food displays at the Xingyingmiao 显应庙 and invite five Daoist ritual master to hold a jiao ritual 做醮, assisted by the newly selected Fushou 新福首. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/26: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. The celebration of Guanze zunwang 广泽尊王. The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Yingji houwang 英济侯王 and Meihua sanniang 梅花三娘. 4/20: The celebration of Zhang daye 张大爷. 5/5: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅诞辰. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 10/10: Xiayuan pudu Lanpen 下元普度兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by Three in One Scripture masters 经师 at the Sanyitang 三一堂. Marionette plays are performed. Funding is by voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple, the Sanyitang 三一堂, has already transformed into a village temple. 2/4: 2/23: 2/25: 3/6: 
V497 Qianting 前亭 1. Village settlement Qianting village is a part of the Shuangfu Administrative Village 双福行政村. The population of Qianting village has approximately 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Weng 翁 are the dominant surname group. There are also two households of the Yu 俞 surname. There used to be a village nearby called Yuzhuang 俞庄, but it has been abandoned, and the Yu have spread out and moved elsewhere. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantingjing Tongxianmiao 前亭境通显庙 contains the altar of the Xingfu nanshê (southern she) 兴福南社. On the central altar are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (martial version), and Penggong yuanshuai 彭公 元帅. On the left altar is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Of the right altar is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 (civil version). On the front altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) 明道堂 Mingdaotang is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 are invited to go on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night there is a procession around the village boundaries of lanterns. On 1/10 the gods of Tongxianmiao 通显庙 are invited to go on procession around the village, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/16 the villages take turns hosting the general Yuanxiao celebration at the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社. They invite five Daoist ritual master to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. On a day determined by divination, between 1/30 and 2/2, the village celebrates Toufu 头福, the day of beginning good fortune. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is the Mingdaotang 明道堂. Regular rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V498 Ketang 柯塘 1. Village settlement Ketang village belongs to the Ketang Administrative Village 柯塘行政村. The village of Ketang has a population of over 1300 people. Ketang is divided into three neighborhoods: Xizhi 西置, Houpai 后 牌, and Oulincheng 欧林埕. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by local shipping. 2. Surname groups Huang 黄 and the Cai 蔡 are the dominant surname groups. There are also households surnamed the Li 李, the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, the Ou 欧, and the Lin 林. The Huang came from Huangan (Huangxiang) in Hanjiang 涵江黄岸(黄巷) and live in Xizhi 西置. The Cai came from Nanpo Xialin village 南坡下林村 and live in Houpai 后牌, where then originally had fourteen large compound houses. The Li came from Duotou in Hanjiang 涵江哆头 and have only four households. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: The Beijidian 北极殿 was restored in 1981 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left mural: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. Right mural: Baban 八班. The Nuo office altar 傩神公案 is for Li jiangjun 李将军. 2) Ketangjing Xingfu xishê 柯塘境兴福西社 was rebuilt in Qing Guangxu 34 (1908), and restored in the early Republican period, in 1984 and in 2000. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. On the left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. In the Niangma gong 娘妈宫: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 3) Xingyundong 兴云洞 was founded in the early Republican period, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, left Generals 左将军. 4) Ciyungong 慈云宫 is dedicated to Xusheng tianfei 许圣天妃. 5) Nantiangong 南天宫 is in Xingcuoli 新厝里 and is dedicated to Li shengmu 李圣母. Chen daren 陈大人 and Xu daren 徐大人. 6) Meilanxuan 梅兰轩 is in Xincuoli 新厝里 and is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, On left and right are Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Lan daren 兰大人 and Xu daren 徐大人. 7) 绍本堂 Shaobentang is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records eighty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 The Huang of Xizhi 西置角 黄 invite the gods of the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社 to go on a tour of inspection procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Lanterns are taken on a procession. On 1/13, the god is returned to the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On 1/14 the Cai of Houpai 后牌角蔡 invite the gods of the Xingfu xishê 兴福 西社 to go on a tour of inspection procession to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Lanterns are taken on a procession. On 1/15 the god is returned to the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On 1/16 the neighborhoods take turns hosting the general Yuanxiao at the Xingfu xishê 兴福西社. On a day between 1/30– 2/2 determined by divination, the village celebrates toufu 头福, beginning good fortune. Three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 who are taken on a procession through the entire village. Spirit mediums 神童 chonghua 冲花 (lit: showering flowers—of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman Candle firework) and perform fire walking 踏火. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 5/5: The celebration of Xincuoli 新厝里 Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. 7/26: The celebration of Xincuoli 新厝里 Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 8/15: The celebration of Xusheng tianfei 许圣天妃. 8: 23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/25: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/28: The celebration of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 9/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 10/28: The celebration of Zhuangshi furen 张氏夫人. On each celebration of a god’s birthday, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the village as a whole, with funds collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xingfu xishê 兴福西社 Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and the Li jiangjun 李将军 of Beijidian 北极殿 each possesses a different spirit medium, all of whom perform exorcistic dances 行儺 during the Yuanxiao festival. The village Three in One temple is called the Shaobentang 绍本堂 and is in Xincuoli 新厝里. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A111 Xianying shijing (Xianying ten territory ritual alliance) 显应十境 The Xianying ten territory ritual alliance is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Weitangpu 魏塘舖 (police/defense unit) of the Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Weitang 魏塘 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Guozhuang 郭庄, Qianzhuang 前庄, Guanqian 关前, Houxu 后许, Zhutoupu 锄头埔, Yangchijiao 洋池角, Houting 厚亭, Zhuangli 庄里, and Qiangang 前港 separated off. Currently this area is managed by Xianying 显应 and Dongdun Administrative Villages 东墩二行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of village settlements into the eastern five village alliance 东五境 and the western five-village alliance 西五境 Villages included in the eastern alliance are Xigang 西港, Zhuangcuo 庄厝, Yangchi 洋池, Houting 后亭, and Xiayang 下洋. The western alliance includes Weitang 魏塘, Guozhuang 郭庄, Dongdun 东墩, Puqian 铺前, and Xiayu 下宇. The Xianyingmiao 显应庙 (also called the Great Shê 大社) of Weitang village 魏塘 is the main temple of the ten village ritual alliance 十境总宫. The Rendeli Xianyingmiao 仁德里显应庙, known as the Great shê-altar 大社, originally had three halls, but later it was torn down and the site was converted into the Xianying Elementary School. In 1983, Yangong taishi 杨公太师 appeared in a dream to the director of the temple management committee Guo Jinguang, who fortuitously encountered some Singapore Overseas Chinese revisiting their home village, and with their help and that of the villagers of the ten village alliance, the temple was rebuilt, and then later it was expanded in 1993. Currently the temple has a front and a back hall. A plaque in the temple dates to the Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816). According to local legend, the god of the temple was repeatedly bestowed with imperial honors and enfeoffments. In the Song, he was enfeoffed Huwei jiangjun 护卫将军, and in the Yuan, his spouse was enfeoffed as Gaoming Zhangshi furen 诰命张氏夫人. In the Ming she was honored as Ciji huanghou 慈济皇侯. The main god is Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (here understood as being the Shêgong 社公) and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (the Shêma 社妈). On the left are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and the Guchuan xianling sanwei zhongjun, 古传显灵三位中军 (Xiao 萧, Ni 倪, and Wang 王). On the left Xianying ten jing ritual alliance are the smaller statues of the gods that go out on procession at Yuanxiao processions Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Shengzishen 圣子神, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Weigong taibao 魏公太保, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. In the hall on the left is the Lufu 鲁府, dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Lubu zhongjun 鲁部中军, and before the altar is the Wuhua tongzi 五花童子. This hall has a plaque dating from Qing Xianfeng 2 (1852). In the right hand hall, called the Hongrenci 弘仁祠, one finds Huang daye 黄大爷, Li daye 李大爷, Xiedaye 谢大爷, and Yahan zhongjun 亚汉中军. From 1/8–16, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 take turns visiting each household on a tour of inspection procession. On 1/17 all the gods return to the temple, and Daoist masters conduct a jiao. In the fourth lunar month the birthday of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is celebrated, and each village in the alliance takes turns sponsoring opera. On 5/5, the celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. On 7/7, the celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. On 6/2, the celebration of Weigong yuanshuai is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances. At this time, a procession is held around the ten village ritual alliance. In the eighth lunar month the birthday of Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 is held and each village in the alliance sponsors opera at the main temple. Historically, the Guo lineage of Weitang 魏塘郭氏 were a prominent local lineage. In Song Shaoxing 13 (1143) and in the Yuan Zhizheng period (1341– 68), a Xiaozi 孝子 (filial son) memorial archway was set up in their honor. A stone inscription composed in Qiandao 1 (1165) by Lin Guanchao 林光朝 entitled 郭氏旌表门闾记 (Record of the ceremonial archway of Guo [the Filial Son]) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:25, No. 23) details the miraculous filiality of the founding ancestor. The stone inscription composed in Dade 5 (1301) by Huang Zhongyuan 黄仲元 entitled 孝节郭公祠堂记 (Record of the Shrine to the Honorable Guo, the Filial and Upright) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:59, No. 52) is also about this ancestral shrine. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Xianying ten village alliance was part of the red banner alliance. 
V499 Weitang 魏塘 1. Village settlement The village of Weitang has a population of over 800 people living in approximately 180 household. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname group is by far the dominant surname in the village, but there are also one household each surnamed 方 and Xu 徐. The Chen moved to the village from Dongyang 东阳 near Putian city, and are the Fushan Chen 浮山陈氏. Their ancestral hall is called the Shishi yuci 世侍御祠 and in it are worshipped painted images of seven ancestors. According to legend, the ancestors of the Chen came to Fujian at the end of the Tang during the Huangchao 黄巢 rebellion from Gushi in Henan 河南固始县. Originally they lived in Fengting in Xianyou 仙游 枫亭. A third generation Chen won first place in the imperial exams, and in the fourth generation, they moved to Hezhai 灵川何寨 in Lingchuan. In their eighth generation they lived in Xialin near Putian city 莆田下林村, and at that time in three generations they produced five jinshi (Metropolitan Graduates) 三代五进士. At the end of the Song, the 13th generation Chen escaped disorder by moving to Dongyang 东阳 east of the Putian walled city. In the Ming Yongle period, the 20th generation Chen Mengyu 陈孟玉, now known as the founding ancestor Master Shaocun 少村公, moved to Weitang and built the Shishi yuci 世侍御祠 lineage hall. The Chen have now reached their 27th generation. Another legend states that the Guo 郭 of Xianying 显应 produced an exemplar of filial piety in the Song dynasty, and that an imperially bequeathed shrine was built for him. Unfortunately, a later descendant offended the court and in order to escape the punishment of death to all relatives to the third degree, many Guo changed their name to Wei 魏 and took Weigong Taibao 魏公太保 as a protector spirit 保护神, and so the village name was changed to Weitang 魏塘. The remaining Guo families in the village have moved to Shangguo 上郭 village. 3. Village temples 1) Rendeli Weitangjing Xianying xishê 仁德里魏塘境 显应西社 is dedicated to Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (Shêgong 社公) and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (Shêma 社妈). On the left are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. On the right are smaller statues used in processions of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Weigong taibao 魏公太保, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 16 (1836) entitled 重建显应社题 捐碑 (Stele on the contributors to the reconstruction of the earth god temple of Manifest Responses) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:304, No. 268). 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 3) Zongming shuyuan 宗明书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) 庆化堂 Qinghutang is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 in the afternoon, the villagers go the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 out on a procession. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/14 a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort the gods of the Xianying dashê. Early in the second lunar month, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held, and the gods of the Xianying xishê 显应西社 are invited out to perform an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 6/2: The celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 is held. 8/3: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈 is held. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Three in One temple is called the Zongming shuyuan 宗明书院, and it holds rituals every 1st and 15th of each month. A Buddhist nunnery called the Qinghutang 庆化堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼 and also holds Buddhist rites. 
V500 Guozhuang 郭庄 1. Village settlement Guozhuang village was originally called Guocang 郭仓. The village has a population of approximately 800 people living in 150 households. The main livelihood is farming, but many men work in construction and many young women work in shoe factories. The level of education is high in this village, which has a number of foreign Ph.D.s to its credit. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Guo 郭. It is said that the Guo of the village came to Fujian from Gushi district in Henan province 河南固始. First they moved to Xianyou 仙游, and later moved to Xianying 显应. The founding ancestor in the village was Guo Yizhong 郭义重. Subsequently, the lineage divided into six branches, with Guozhang 郭庄 as the direct line of the eldest son 长房. The other branches are in Xiayu 下宇, Ketang 柯塘, Jiangdong 江东, Huazhong 华中, Qinyuan Houlin 沁园后林, and Qibu Zhuxiang 七步朱巷. Formerly there was an ancestral hall in Guozhuang but it no longer exists. The lineage is in the twelfth generation since their ancestor, the Qing dynasty figure, Guo Dianqing 郭殿卿, attained his Jinshi degree (Metropolitan Graduate). Local legend claims that Guzhuang 郭庄 is the home of the parents of Guo Yizhong 郭义重, a Song paragon of virtue who received a sign from Heaven confirming his filial piety, and for whom the court had a shrine built. In recent years, various branches of the Guo lineage from Hui’an 惠安 to Henan 河南 have visited Guozhuang to confirm its importance to the history of the lineage within Fujian. These efforts received government approval in 1985. Other legends link Guzhuang village with the landholdings of the Guo lineage, and suggest that the parents of GuoYizhong had hidden there to avoid implication in the crimes of another lineage member. 3. Village temples 1) Baoxingmiao 宝兴庙 is divided into the main hall and a side hall. The main hall is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Jingong daren 金公大人 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. The side hall is a Lufu 鲁府, and is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 villagers go to the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On 1/14–15 after completing a tour of inspection procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao, the gods are escorted back to Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/26–27, there is a procession of gods in the village, performances of opera, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. The roadways are sealed against demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: A celebration for all the gods 文武诸神 is held. 8/10: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V501 Dongdun 东墩 1. Village settlement The village of Dongdun has a population of approximately 1000 people. The village is divided into seven neighborhoods: Houtian 后田, Touqian 头前, Xuesheng 学盛, Kutou 堀头, Jindian 锦店, Xiadongdun 下东墩, and Dali 搭里. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by fishing. The village has two dragon boats, and raises a red banner during races. 2. Surname groups The Tian 田 are the dominant surname, with some 230 households There are also some households surnamed the Chen 陈, the Zeng 曾, the Cao 曹, the Shen 沈, and the Weng 翁. The Tian moved to the village from Zhongmen 忠门. Originally there was a Tian ancestral hall, but it has been converted into the village old persons association 老人协会. 3. Village temples 1) Dongdunjing Xianying xishê 东墩境显应西社 contains the Zhongxiaotan 忠孝坛, and was restored in 1989. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, To the right is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baifu daren 白府大人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Further left are Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, and further right are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. 2) Zhongxiaotan 忠孝坛 is linked to the Yunshuidian 云水殿 and is dedicated to a Nuo exorcistic god 傩神, and to Shi jiangjun 施将军 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Mingqingtang 明清堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 record thirty-six initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, in the afternoon, villagers go the Xianying dashê 显应大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 out on a procession. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the village boundaries. On 1/17 a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders sends off the gods of the Xianying dashê. Early in the second lunar month, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Deng yuanshuai 邓元帅, Leixin puhua tianzun 雷心普化天尊, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held in the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 with opera performances 6/2: The celebration of Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no organized tanban 坛班 spirit medium altar association. However, there are several spirit mediums in their 50s who are possessed by the following gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wang yuanshuai 王元帅, Deng yuanshuai 邓元帅, Leixin puhua tianzun 雷心普化 天尊, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shi jiangjun 施将军. These men usually work outside the village, and only return at Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods in order to take part in xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. At these times, they recite invocations of the gods until the god possesses them. The village Three in One temple is called the Mingqingtang 明清堂. It holds rites on the 1st and 15th of each month. 
V502 Puqian 铺前 1. Village settlement Puqian was originally called Chutoupu 锄头铺 or Puqian 埔前. The village of Puqian has a population of over 450 people, living in about 110 households. The main livelihood in farming, although are carpenters, construction workers, or workers in lacquer or shoe factories. The old imperial postal route went through this village. From Dingpu 顶铺 in Hanjiang 涵江 to Puqian 莆田 was the space of one pu (police/defense unit), thus Puqian got its name. The village was a red banner village in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Yao 姚. It is said the first Yao ancestor to enter Fujian 福建, founding ancestor Master Tianming 天明, was a man of Gushi 固始 district in Henan 河南, who attained his Jinshi Metropolitan Graduate status in Tang Qianning 4 (897). In Guanghua 1 (898), he took a post as Magistrate of Houguan 侯官, and later settled in Shaoxi in Putian 莆田韶溪, near the border between Jiangkou 江口 and Fuqing 福清. His descendants divided into three lineage branches, called Meng 孟, Zhong 仲, and Ji 季. The direct first born branch settled in Cixi near Ningbo in Zhejiang 浙江宁波慈溪. The second branch subdivided into three more branches: The Chaozhang 朝璋, Chaosi 朝嗣 and Chaogui 朝 圭. The fourteenth generation descendant of the Chaozhang 朝璋 branch moved to Yangshan 畅山, while the Chaosi 朝嗣 branch descendents moved to Hanjiang Puqian 涵江铺前, Jianqian 鉴前 and Xitianwei Chengzhu 西天 尾澄渚, Houhuang 后黄, Donghuang 东黄 and Xiafuxiang 下府巷 in Putian city. The third branch moved to Hanjiang Anren 涵江安仁 and Qinyuan 沁园. The Qinyuan 沁园 branch has already reached the 32nd generation, and in 1989 they built the Zhongqin daxiaoci 忠沁大孝祠 ancestral hall, and edited a Yao lineage genealogy. The Hanjiang 涵江 Tangbei 塘北 Elementary school is located in the Yao ancestral hall, and one can still see a Qianlong period plaque there. Puqian 铺前 originally had a Yao ancestral hall, but it no longer survives. The tomb of the 16th generation ancestor of the Yao lineage is in the foothills of the Shipan 石盘 mountains in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Rendeli Puqianjing Yunfengtang 仁德里铺前境云 峰堂 was built in Qing Xuantong 3 (1911). In 1982 new god statues were carved and in 1990 the temple was restored. In front of the temple is a large canal, which is said to contain the lair of a Carp spirit. The main altar is dedicated to Jinfu daren 金府大人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To the left are Sanwei xianshi 三位仙师 and to the right Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. An altar in the temple is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and is used for spirit writing, and exorcisms. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 villagers pray for good fortune 上元祈福. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to organize the rituals. Two elders are called the Datou 大头 and the two unmarried ones are called the xiaotou 小头. Usually a single Daoist master is invited from Zhenqian 镇前 to conduct rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/22: The celebration for Jinfu daren 金府大人. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 10/28: The celebration for Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance were revived at the end of the 1970’s and in the early 1980’s. The Lanpen 兰盆 ritual was performed again, once every three years, on 10/29. 5. Ritual Groups The village has a spirit medium who is possessed by Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公圣君, and who can transmit spirit writing 扶乩 and perform exorcistic dance 行儺. 
V503 Xigang 西港 1. Village settlement Xigang was originally called Qiangang 前港. The village of Xigang has over 400 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 surname group is the dominant group. There are also the minor surnames Chen 陈 and Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing Xianying dongshê 钱江境显应东 社, also contains the Xianyinggong 显应宫. The temple originally was the Dafuci 大夫祠 ancestral hall of the Huang lineage 黄氏. In 1958 it was torn down and turned into a pig breeding station. Recently it has been rebuilt as a temple. The main altar is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The front altar is for Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Zongyutang 宗裕堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 in the afternoon, villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/10 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/22, at the end of the Yuanxiao period, the village organizes a chonghua 冲花 ritual (lit: showering flowers—of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman candle firework). Spirit mediums from nearby villages are invited to compete in tests of endurance and to perform exorcistic dances (行儺) . Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. In the eighth lunar month on a day determined by divination villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are no Daoist ritual masters in the village, but there are spirit mediums who are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. They perform exorcistic dances, xingnuo 行傩, during the Yuanxiao festival. The village Three in One temple is called the Zongyutang 宗裕堂. Rituals are held on the 1st and 15th of each month. 
V504 Zhuangcuo 庄厝 1. Village settlement Zhuangcuo was originally called Zhuangli 庄里. The village of Zhuangcuo has over 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The main surname group are the Lin 林. There are also some households surnamed Zeng 曾 and Shen 沈. 3. Village temples 1) Zhuangcuojing Dongyuandian 庄厝境东元殿 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left is Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. To the right is Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Mingqingtang 明清堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 in the afternoon, villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/13 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. On 1/28–29, at the end of the Yuanxiao period, the village organizes a chonghua 冲花 ritual (lit: showering flowers of flame—feats of endurance by mediums who place their faces and bodies in the flames of a Roman candle firework). Spirit mediums from nearby villages are invited to come to Zhuangcuo 庄厝 to compete in tests of endurance and to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 7/28: villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups This village has no organized tanban 坛班 altar association or Daoist ritual masters. There are spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed by Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. On Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods in they take part in xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. At these times, they recite invocations of the gods until the god possesses them. The village Sanyijiao temple is called the Mingqingtang 明清堂, and there are rituals held on the first and fifteenth of every month. 
V505 Yangchi 洋池 1. Village settlement Yangchi was originally called Yangchijiao 洋池角. Yangchi village has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 is the main surname group. The Lin 林 and the He 何 are minor surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Yangchijing qingyundian 洋池境青云殿 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Sanwei guniang 三位姑娘. To the right are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军, and Sanwei daye 三位大爷. 2) Qingdediang 清德殿 was built in recent years. The temple is dedicated to Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Sanwei guniang 三位姑娘, Daye 大爷 and Erye二爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社 公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/11 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 8/2: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. 8/5: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V506 Xiayang 下洋 1. Village settlement Xiayang village has a population of 227 people. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the major surname group. The He 何 are the minor surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing Xianying zushê 钱江境显应祖社 was originally the founding shê altar of the entire ten village ritual alliance 十境 祖社, but now belongs to the eastern five village ritual alliance. The temple is dedicated to Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Yaochici 瑶池祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records forty-two initiates. 3) Shandeci 善德祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records fifty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 in the afternoon, together with Houting village 后亭村, villagers go to their own Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/9 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On 2/2, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 and the Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 9/3: The celebration of the Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 and the Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 of Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a spirit medium in the village who is possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On Yuanxiao or on the birthday celebrations of the gods he performs xingnuo 行傩 exorcistic dances. 
V507 Houting 后亭 1. Village settlement Houting was originally called Houting 厚亭. The village of Houting has approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 are the main surname group in the village. There are also minor surname groups of the Chen 陈 and the Zeng 曾. The Wu moved from Putian city, and it is said that they were originally sent here to look after the gravesites of the Wu lineage. 3. Village temples 1) Houtingjing Ruiyun zumiao 后亭境瑞云祖庙 is shared jointly with Xiayang village 下洋村. The temple is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Shitai daoren 石胎道人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 in the afternoon, together with Xiayang village 下洋村, the villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/17 in the evening, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社. On 2/2, the fengjin 奉金 ritual is held. The villagers invite the gods of the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 and the Ruiyun zumiao 瑞云祖庙 to go on an exorcistic procession 行儺. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. 8/24: Villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V508 Xiayu 下宇 1. Village settlement Xiayu was originally called Xiaxu 下许. The village of Xiayu has over 100 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname group This village is a mixed surname village. This is called “in seven households there are eight surnames and nine widows” 七户八姓 九寡妇. Currently the following surnames can be found in the village: the Zeng 曾, the You 游, the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘, the He 何, the Guo 郭, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xiayujing Xianyinggong 下宇境显应宫 is dedicated to Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. To the left is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. To the right is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baifu daren 白府大人, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Sanwei zhongjun 三位中军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 in the afternoon, the villagers go to the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and the Xianying zushê 显应祖社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈. At night there is a procession of lanterns around the boundaries of the village. On 1/16 in the afternoon, a female drum cart and cymbal troupe and the village elders escort back the gods of the Xianying dashê 显应大社. Birthday celebrations of the gods In the fourth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the birthday of Yanggong taishi is celebrated 杨公太师. In the eighth lunar month, on a day determined by divination, villagers go to the Dashê 大社 to invite the Shêgong 社公 and the Shêma 社妈 back to the village to watch opera and celebrate their birthdays. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
A112 Anren qijing (Anren sevenfold ritual alliance) 安仁七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Anren 安仁六村 is located along the northern main channel of the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂北大沟. This area was part of the Nijiang Beigangpu 霓江北港舖 and the Lidunpu 利墩舖 (police/defense unit) of Rendeli 仁德里 sub-canton. In the Qing the 
A112 Anren sevenfold ritual alliance villages of Beigang 北港 (also known as Xixu 西徐), Zhoudun 周墩, Xiajiang 下江, and Tiancen 田岑 were settled. In the late Qing, the villages of Xiafang 下方 and Jiakou 加口 separated off. Currently there are six natural villages managed by the Anren Administrative Village 安仁行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Anren zushê 安仁祖社 of Beigang 北港 is the founding shê altar of the six village ritual alliance七境祖社. The main gods are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (Shêgong 社公), Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (Shêma 社妈) and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival each of the villages of the alliance goes to the temple to invite the gods to their village. It is said that formerly a joint, general Yuanxiao was celebrated at the temple, but collective rites and processions have not been revived. In the feuding banner alliances of the end fo the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Anren was part of the red banner alliance. 
V509 Beigang 北港 1. Village settlement Beigang includes Xixu 西徐. The village population is approximately 800 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by working in construction. During dragon boat races, a red banner is raised. 2. Surname groups There are four main surname groups in the village, the Zhang 张, Chen 陈, Li 李, and the Guo 郭. The Guo moved to the village from Shangguo 上郭, and ever since have participated as a unit in the Xingfu zushê 兴福祖社 ritual activities. The village still has three incense burners 三社炉 inscribed with the names of the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈 and the Li 李. Each year each surname selects one Fushou 福首. 3. Village temples 1) Anren zushê 安仁祖社 is the founding shê altar of the ritual alliance. The statues of the Shêgong 社公 and Shêma 社妈 of Xixu 西徐 and Xiafang 下坊 are kept in this temple as well. On the main altar are Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To left and right are the Xixujing 西徐境 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Xiakangjing 霞康境 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qingliantan 青莲坛 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, and the Li 李 Fushou 福首 each carry their shê-altar incense burners around the village. Each surname group receives the incense burners in their ancestral houses. That evening there is fire walking and opera. On 1/22, the Anren zushê 安仁祖社, together with Xiafang 下坊 village, invites Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to go on an exorcistic procession 行傩. The spirit medi- ums 神童 of each village are invited to 采花 (pick the flower flames) and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The Fushou 福首 organize these events, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Anren zushê 安 仁祖社 possesses a spirit medium 神童, who, on Yuanxiao, performs exorcistic dances 行傩. 
V510 Zhoudun 周墩 1. Village settlement Zhoudun has a population of approximately 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by construction work. They raise a red banner during dragon boat races. 2. Surname groups The entire village is surnamed Wu 吴. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age to serve as organizers and hosts for the rituals of the year. Those men 58 and above are considered village elders 乡老. 3. Village temples 1) Zhoudunjing Anren nanshê 周墩境安仁南社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. To the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, to the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. To the left and right are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house 祖厝大厅. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. On 1/13 the gods are invited back to the shê temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封 路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns 乞火. On 1/26, the last night of Yuanxiao, the first opera of the year is performed 演 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 go out on an exorcistic procession 行儺. The spirit mediums from neighboring villages are invited to “gather fire-flowers” 神童采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/9: The celebration of Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 11/7: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, and the rituals are organized and hosted by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Yongxingtang 永兴堂 possess spirit mediums 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩 at Yuanxiao. 
V511 Xiajiang 下江 1. Village settlement Xiajiang village is also known as Xiaan 下安. The village population is approximately 800 people living in about 150 households. Farming is the main livelihood. 2. Surname groups The Fang 方 make up 80 households and the Chen 陈 make up 60 households. The Fang 方 are part of the Liugui Fang lineage 六桂方氏, and moved from Xitianwei 西天尾. The Chen 陈 claim to be part of the Yingshui Chen 颖水陈, and moved to Xiajinag village from Dongyang 东阳 outside Putian 莆田. They are thus part of the same lineage as the Xiagao Chen 下高陈 and the Jiangkou Xiadun Chen 江口下墩陈. There was originally a Chen ancestral hall but it is no longer extant. 3. Village temples 1) Xiajiangjing Anren dongshê 霞江境安仁东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the left and right are Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2) Chaoxiagong 朝霞宫 was built in Qing Jiaqing period ( 1796–1820), and was rebuilt in 1993. The temple preserves a Qing Jiaqing 20 (1815) carved couplet on two pillars, and a Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816) plaque. On the main altar are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To the left is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, to the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Zhibentang 至本堂 was rebuilt in 1987 and is dedicated to Fanxiang xianshi 范相仙师. On the left is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and on the right Kong daren 孔大人. 4) Jingyi shuyuan 精一书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, four palm sedan chairs are prepared for Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, who are taken on a procession around the village. Four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners. On 1/18 in the evening, opera is performed, and a procession is held around the village boundaries, and lanterns are paraded. Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 leads the exorcistic procession 行傩 and there is firewalking 踏火. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and three Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮祈福. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. In the eighth lunar month on a day determined by divination, the celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the Fushou 福首 and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 11/5 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed by the Three in One Scripture masters of the Jingyitang 精一堂. 5. Ritual Groups The Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Chaoxiagong 朝霞宫 possesses spirit medium 神童, who performs exorcistic dances 行儺 during Yuanxiao. The village Three in One temple is called the Jingyi shuyuan 精一书院 or the Jingyitang 精一堂. This temple branched off from Huangan Xipo 黄安西坡, and was established by Liang Puyao 梁普耀. On the main altar is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left is Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人, and to the right Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. There are over 45 initiates in the temple, who perform twice daily recitations of the Chashuijing 茶水经 and bi-monthly (first and fifteenth) recitations of the Bentijing 本体经 and the Sinijing 四尼经. 
V512 Xiafang 下坊 1. Village settlement Xiafang is also called Xiakang 霞康. The village population is approximately 300 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are the dominant surname group, but there are a few Guo 郭 households. 3. Village temples Mingqinggong 名青宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To the left and right are Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Baban 八班, and Sijiang 四将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 villagers go to the Anren zushê 安仁祖社 to ask for incense fire 请香火 Then two Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession. Each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house in the village 祖厝大厅接驾 That night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. Daoist masters are invited to perform rites. On 1/26 the general Yuanxiao of 安仁祖社 is held. Together with Xixu village 西徐, Xiafang villagers invite Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 to conduct an exorcistic dance 行傩. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flowerflames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/9: The celebration of Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅 is held. 9/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, and the events are hosted by the Fushou 福首. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang duyuanshuai 黄 都元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Mingqinggong 名青宫 all possesa spirit mediums 神童 who perform exorcistic dances 行傩 during Yuanxiao. 
V513 Jiakou 加口 1. Village settlement Jiakou village is also known as Gekou 隔口. The population of the village is about 300 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 and the Chen 陈 are the main surname groups. Each year they each select Fushou 福首 in rotation of the basis of age. 3. Village temples 1) Gekoujing Anre zhongshê 隔口境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 3) Yuqingtang 裕庆堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 two Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners of the temple on procession. Each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house 祖厝大厅. That night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. Fushou 福首 organize the rituals, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Yuqingtang 裕庆堂 and it is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Daye 大爷. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
V514 Tiancen 田岑 1. Village settlement The village of Tiancen has a population of approximately 500 people. The main livelihood is farming, with construction work as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The only surname in the village is the Chen 陈. They are the Yuhu Chen 玉湖陈 who came from Kuokou outside Putian city 阔口. The village has a Chen ancestral hall and it is there that each year three Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to look after the rituals of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Dengyingjing Anren zhongshê 登瀛境安仁中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Panguan 判官, and Jishi 吉使. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Qingyigong 清溢宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. To left and right are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Yongxingtang 永兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On the left is Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and on the right Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Dehuitang 德会堂 is dedicated to Jiangfu zhizun 江府至尊. On the right and left are Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Wu yuanshuai 伍元帅, Er daren 二大人, and San daren 三大人. 6) Zhibentang 致本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded. On 1/12 four Fushou 福首 carry the incense burners in a procession and each household worships the gods in the main hall of the ancestral house. Daoists are invited to perform rites. On 1/13 the gods are escorted back to the temple and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16 each household goes to the temple to light lanterns for their homes 乞火. On 1/26 the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to perform exorcistic dances 行儺. The spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to “gather flower-flames” 采花, and Daoist masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days, Fushou 福首主持, Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is a Three in One temple in the village 三一教祠. 
A113 Changfu qijing (Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance) 长福七境 The Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance 长福七境 is located at the meeting point between the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂, and contains the Xingang Sluice-gate 新港 斗门. This area was part of the Lidunpu 利墩舖, the Gangweipu 港尾舖 and the Xingang Houzhengpu 新港后郑舖 (police/defense units) of Rendeli sub-canton 仁德里. In the early Qing, the villages of Lidun 利墩, Kundun 崑墩, Shangzheng 上郑, Xinggnag 新港. Houzheng 厚郑, Gangbian 港边, and Gangwei 港尾 were all settled in this area. In the late Qing and early Republican period the village of Daduxia 大度下 separated off. These villages are all managed by the Zhoudun 周墩 and Jiangwei Administrative Villages 江尾行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Changfu zushê 长福祖社 located in Lidun 利墩 village is the founding shê altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境祖社. The Changfu zushê 长福祖 was built in the Ming Zhengde period (1506–1521) and collapsed in the Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850). In 1991 it was rebuilt on its original foundations. The main altar is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To the left and right are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Each year on 3/23, on the birthday of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, the goddess is carried in a procession through all the seven villages of the sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. The ritual alliance includes the following seven shê-altars: the Lidun zushê 利墩祖社, the Xingang changfushê 新港 长福社, the Houzheng beishê 后郑北社, the Shangzheng xishê 上郑西社, the Dadu xiaxishê 大度下西社, the Jiangbian zhongshê 江边中社 and the Jiangwei dongshê 江尾东社. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Jiang bian 江边 and Jiangwei 江尾 were part of the white banner alliance, while all the other villages were part of the red banner alliance. 
A113 Changfu sevenfold ritual alliance Lidun 利墩 1. Village settlement The village of Lidun has a population of 643 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 surname group is predominant in the village. Each year five Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the annual rituals. 3. Village temples 1) Lidunjing Changfu zushê 利墩境长福祖社 includes the Chongfugong 崇福宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. To left and right are Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 (who divided off from the Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫), Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅 (another name for the Shêgong 社公), and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人 (the Shêma 社妈). 2) Xinxingting 新兴亭 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人, known in this area as Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 both have spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed and perform exorcistic dance 行傩 during Yuanxiao and on the god’s birthdays. 
V516 Houzheng 后郑 1. Village settlement Houzheng is also known as Houzheng 厚郑. The population of Houzheng village is over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Lin 林 are by far the dominant surname group. There are also some households surnamed the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Houzhengjing Changfu beishê 后郑境长福北社 contains the Xingxiangong 兴显宫. The main altar is for Zhanggong sheng jun 张公圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left and the right are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Tiancifu 天慈府 is dedicated to Chen xiannü 陈仙女 and Yang Jiuniang 杨九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 7/23: The celebration for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/3: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 both have spirit mediums 神童 who are possessed and perform exorcistic dance 行傩 during Yuanxiao and on the god’s birthdays. 
V517 Xingang 新港 1. Village settlement The village of Xingang has a population of over 200 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups including the Lin 林, the Zheng 郑, and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Xingangjing Changfushê 新港境长福社 includes the Xinxinggong 新兴宫. The main altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. To the left are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and to the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Xianfudong 仙福洞 is dedicated to Li xianshi 李仙师 and Daye 大爷. 3) Liujitang 流寂堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/19 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 12/25: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V518 Daduxia 大度下 1. Village settlement The village of Daduxia has over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin, which has over two thirds of the village population, and maintains a Lin ancestral hall 林氏 祠堂. There are also some households surnamed Xu 许, etc. 3. Village temples 1) Xilinjing Changfu xishê 西林境长福西社 includes the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥 大将, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝诞辰. 9/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V519 Shangzheng 上郑 1. Village settlement The village of the Shangzheng has a population of over 170 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname. There are also households surnames the Zhang 张 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Shangzhengjing Changfu xishê 上郑境长福西社 includes the Fuxinggong 福星宫. The temple branched off from Daduxia 大度下. On the main altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Yaogong yuanshuai 姚公元帅, and Zhangshi furen 张氏夫人. 2) Changxingdian 长兴殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. To left and right are Wugong yuanshuai 吴公 元帅, Qianliyan 千里眼 and Shunfenger 顺风耳. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. At night, a procession is held around the village boundaries and lanterns are paraded 绕境游灯. Each year with an intercalary month, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 goes on a procession throughout the entire sevenfold ritual alliance 巡游七境. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 9/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 
V520 Jiangwei 江尾 1. Village settlement Jiangwei was originally called Gangwei 港尾. The village of Jiangwei has a population of over 500 people. The main livelihood is farming. Originally many households made straw mats as a supplementary source of income. Nowadays most men work in construction and young women work in shoe factories. The village belonged to the white banner alliance in the conflicts between white and black banner alliances. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname group. They are either Kuokou Chen 阔口陈 from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, in which case they are related to the Chen of Chenqiao village 陈桥陈, or they are the Shoushan Chen 寿山陈, who came from Shoushan 寿山. 3. Village temples 1) Meijiangjing Changfu dongshê 湄江境长福东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. To left and right are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 2) Qingyunmiao 青云庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. To the left and right are Chen daye 陈大爷, Zhou daye 周大爷, Xie daye 谢大爷, Li daye 李大爷, and Huang daye 黄大爷. 3) Xiatiandong 霞天洞 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. To left and right are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Wu daren 乌大人. 4) Chilinan 赤林庵 was built in the early Republican period (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–18, Yuanxiao is celebrated, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路, and three Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. Bells are rung and drums are beaten until the spirit mediums are possessed by the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人. On each celebration of the birthday of the gods, opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. The event is organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. The Fushou 福首 take turns taking care of the rituals. 
V521 Jiangbian 江边 1. Village settlement Jiangbian is also known as Gangbian 港边. The village of Jiangbian has a population of over 600 people. The main livelihood is farming, supplemented by laboring in construction. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. They moved to Jiangbian from Mendou 门兜 in Putian 莆田 city. They have divided into three lineage branches. They once had an ancestral hall but it has been converted into a school. 3. Village temples 1) Taojiangjing Changfu zhongshê 陶江境长福中社 was rebuilt in 1991. The main altar is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Guan Ping 关平, Zhou Cang 周仓, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the left altar are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. On the right altar are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. In the left hall, the Xiashuitang 夏水堂, are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Daye 大爷. In the right hand hall, the Wanxingdian 万兴殿 are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, and Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 2) Guangxiatang 光夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 are invited on a procession to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the general Yuanxiao festival is held and two spirit medium 神童 are possessed by the gods, and issue a proclamation from the gods 出榜. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 10/19: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On each god’s birthday opera is performed for two days. On some occasions up to five Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. The Fushou 福首 take turns organizing the rituals. Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 is performed on a day in the 11th lunar month determined by divination by the Three in One initiates of the village who conduct the Lanpen 兰盆 rites. 5. Ritual Groups The village Three in One temple is called the Guangxiatang 光夏堂 and is also known as the Yuying shuyuan 毓英书院 was built in Qianlong 3.(1738) and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left and right are Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 and Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊. Regular monthly rites are performed by the initiates 门人. 
A114 Chongsheng sanshê (Chongsheng three shê ritual alliance) 崇圣三社 The three shê ritual alliance of Chongsheng is located along the main channel diverting water from besides the Taiping Weir 太平陂, which lies across the upper reaches of the Qiulu river, to the north of the northern irrigated plain. This area was part of the Fenglin waipu 枫林外铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing, the villages of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, Hutoulin 虎头林, Nanshan 南山, Ganyan 柑园, Lingxia 岭下, Tingkeng 廷坑 and Duxia 度下 were settled. Currently these villages are managed by the Chongsheng Administrative Village 崇圣行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to shê-altars and temples into the three shê-altars of Fuxingshê 福兴社, Fuanshê 福安社 and Fuchongshê 福崇社. The Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 temple, located in Meilou 美楼 village, is the main temple for the three shê ritual alliance. The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year on lunar 1/15– 16 a collective Yuanxiao celebration is held by the three shê and the gods of the Chongshenggong are carried in procession to each of the shê altars of the alliance. 
V522 Meilou 美楼 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Chongshenggong 崇圣宫: The main gods are Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣候, Dujiao jiangjun 独角将军, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 
A114 Chongsheng three shê ritual alliance 2) Fuxingshê 福兴社: this temple belongs to the villages of Meilou 美楼, Bannan 半南, Qiaozitou 桥仔头, Gonghou 宫后, Xiaban houkeng 下班后 坑, Songshê 宋社, Dachikou 大池口, Pinglingtou 坪岭头, and Waiduxia 外度下. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, All the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. 8/8: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Wugu shenxian 五谷神仙. On all these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebrations are organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V523 Chongshê 崇社 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Yu 俞. There is a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏祠堂 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Chongshengyuan 崇圣院 was rebuilt in 2002. The main god is Jialan sanbao 迦蓝三宝. Secondary gods include Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Pangu diwang 盘古帝王, Zhutian dadi 注天大帝, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daxiong 大兄, and Erxiong 二兄. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is orga nized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuxingshê 福兴社. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V524 Waiduxia 外度下 1. Village settlement The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Qiu 邱. 3. Village temples Beitouan 陂头庵: The main god is Baima xianggong 白马相公. Secondary gods include Zuoyou jiangjun 左右将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuxingshê 福兴社 go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongsheng gong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人of Fuxing shê 福兴社. 10/9: The birthday celebration of Baima jiangjun 白马将军. On these occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V525 Songbaige 松柏戈 1. Village settlement There are thirty-three households in total in the village, with approximately 200 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Fuanshê 福安社: This is the main shê altar of the villages of Songbaige 松柏戈 (Chen 陈), Lingxia 岭下 (Zeng 曾), Tianwei 田尾 (Li 李), Houan 后安 (Li 李), Fengting 枫亭 (Li 李), Banling 半岭 (Han 韩), Zhaili 宅里 (Huang 黄), and Yanli 晏里 (Huang 黄). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Panguan 判官 and Jishi 吉使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuanshê 福安社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuanshê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This organized by the all the villages belonging to this shê altar all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V526 Ganyuan 柑园 1. Village settlement The village is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangwu 上吴 and Xiawu 下吴. The total population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples Fuchongshê 福崇社: This is the main shê altar of villages including Hulin 胡林 (Lin 林), Guoxi 过溪 (Lin 林), Xian 西安 (Lin 林), Chitou 池头 (Chen 陈), Ganyuan 柑园 (Wu 吴), Shancen 山岑 (Lian 连), Lingxia 岭下 (Li 李), Qiaozitou 桥仔头 (Li 李), Dingdapu 顶大埔 (Li 李), Xiadapu 下大埔 (Li 李), and Litang 利塘 (Huang 黄). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, all the gods of Fuchongshê 福崇社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by the subsidiary villages all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/15–16, all the gods of Chongshenggong 崇圣宫 go on procession to all the villages of the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This event is organized by Chongshenggong 崇圣宫, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Fuchongshê 福崇社. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. On both occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A115 Lingci qijing (Lingci sevenfold ritual alliance) 灵慈七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Lingci is located along the main irrigation channel emerging from the Taiping Weir into the northern sector of the northern irrigated plain 太平陂下圳. This area was part of the Dongzhang shanhoupu 东张山后铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the Ming, the villages of Dongzhang 东张 and Hongdu 洪度 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Jiuqiu 九坵 and Houting 后 亭 divided off. In the late Qing and early Republican period, the villages of Nanshan 南山, Anjun 安君, Houkeng 后坑, Guocuo 郭厝, Xiacuo 下厝, Tiancuo 田厝 and Beicheng 北埕 separated off. These villages are managed by three Administrative Villages, namely Dongzhang 东张, Shuangting 双亭 and Hongshang 洪南行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. Lingcigong 灵慈宫 temple, located in Hongdu 洪度 village, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every twelve years, the goddess is carried on a procession through the villages of the alliance, as well as to nearby villages. Currently, Dongzhang 东张 has already detached itself from the sevenfold ritual alliance, so Dongzhang no longer participates in the year-round ritual activities of Lingcigong. Nonetheless, Dongzhang still takes part in the great procession of Mazu 妈祖 of Lingcigong that is held once every twelve years. The route for this procession is as follows: Yianshê 义安社, Fuanshê 福安社, Wananshê 万安社, Longshangong 龙山宫, Tongjishê 通济宫, Fushoushê 福寿社, Lingyinshê 灵隐社, Denglongshê 登龙社, Chongfutang 崇福堂, Wanlingong 万麟宫, and Xianggong fushê 香龙福社. 
V527 Nanshan 南山 1. Village settlement Nanshan is divided into two neighborhoods: Shangnan 上南 and Zhongnan 中南. The total population is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Zeng 曾, the Li 李, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Shi 施, and the Zhang 张. There is no main surname group. 
A115 Lingci sevenfold ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Chongfushê 崇福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Chonglongshê 崇隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Shangnan 上南 invites all the gods of Chongfushê 崇福社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration is organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/10, Zhongnan 中南 invites all the gods of Chonglongshê 崇隆社 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The celebration organized by the shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/2: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chongfushê 崇福社. In the 10th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Chonglongshê 崇隆社 is held. On both these above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These celebrations are organized by each shê itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V528 Hongdu 洪度 1. Village settlement Hongdu is divided into two ritual territories: the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡 ritual territories. The total population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Cai 蔡. 3. Village temples 1) Lingcigong 灵慈宫 contains the Yi’anshê 义安社, Anfushê 安福社, Chongfuhe 崇福社, Baofushê 保福社, Chonglongshê 崇隆社, and Chongxingshê 崇兴社. The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Lingong shenghou 林公圣候, Heihu dashen 黑虎大神, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣候. 2) Chongxingshê 崇兴社: This is the shê-altar of Kengtou 坑头, Dudong 度冬, Gongxia 宫下, Dinghoukeng 顶后坑, and Anjun 安君. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 3) Wushangong 武山宫: The main god is Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 4) Zhenlingong 振麟宫: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. 5) Qingyundian 庆云殿: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, and Ma Jia erjiangjun 马贾二将军. 6) Dongfangmiao 东方庙: The main god is Kusi dawang 库司大王. 7) Kengtousi 坑头寺: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo hufa 韦驮护法 and Jialan pusa 迦蓝菩萨. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4 the Lingcigong 灵慈宫 welcomes the gods back from heaven 接神. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the temple, and funding is raised through voluntary contributions. On 1/12, all the gods of Chongxingshê 崇兴社 and Wushangong 武山宫 are invited to go on procession within the Caijing 蔡境. This is organized by the Cai 蔡, and funds are collected from amongst them on a per capita basis. On 1/13, all the gods of Chongxingshê 崇兴社, the Zhenlingong 振麟宫, and the Qingyundian 庆云殿 are invited to go on a procession within the Linjing 林境. This is organized by the Lin 林, and funds are collected from amongst them on a per capita basis. On all such occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Chongxingshê 崇兴社. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This is organized by Xiating ritual jing 下亭境, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Movies are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Linjing 林境. 4/28: The birthday celebration of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 is organized by the Lingcigong 灵慈宫. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by Lingcigong 灵慈宫 of Xiatingjing 下亭境. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the Lin 林. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by Lingci gong 灵慈宫. 8/23 is the celebration of the Tuofan 脱凡 day of apotheosis of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Marionette plays are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Lin 林. The celebration for the day of ascension of Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母 is organized by Lingcigong 灵慈宫. 9/28: The birthday celebration of Lingong shengjun 林公圣侯 is organized by the Xiatingjing 下亭境. On all these occasions, either opera is performed, or else marionette plays or movies are offered. Contributions are raised per capita, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to perform rites for the gods. 9/9: 
V529 Jiaqiu 九坵 1. Village settlement The total population of Jiaqiu village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Li 李. There exists a Li ancestral hall 李氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Anfushê 安福社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 2) Xianshengdian 显圣殿: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, all the gods of Anfushê 安福社 are invited to go on procession within its village. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. Birthday celebrations of the gods 9/26: The birthday celebration of Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公元帅. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V530 Xiacuo 下厝 1. Village settlement Xiacuo is part of the Xiatingjing下亭境. The village includes Xiahouting 下后亭. The total population is approximately 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Fulongmiao 绂龙庙: The main gods are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 2) Xianmingdian 显名殿: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Langong daren 蓝公大人, Jingong daren 金公大人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, all the gods of Xianmingdian 显名殿 are invited to go on procession within its village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the event all together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of Baofushê 保福社 go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is all organized by the Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The birthday celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神. Opera and rituals are performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Opera and rituals are performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 Every second year, opera is performed. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê 保福社, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V531 Guocuo 郭厝 1. Village settlement The total population of the village is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭 and the Weng 翁. 3. Village temples 1) Baofushê 保福社 is the principal shê-altar of Xiacuo 下厝 (Xiahouting下后亭), Guocuo 郭厝, Beicheng 北埕, Shanghouting 上后亭, and Xiahoukeng 下后坑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shenggongdian 圣公殿: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣候, Jialan sanbao 伽蓝三宝, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 all the gods of Shenggongdian 圣公殿 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1 all the gods of Baofushê 保福社 go on a procession to each of the villages that are part of the alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/21: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Marionette operas are performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, including rites of Universal Deliverance 普度. This is organized by Baofushê 保福社, and funds are collected based on the population size of each village. Shanghouting 上后亭 provides 20%, Xiating 下亭 (Xiacuo 下厝, Xiahouting 下后亭) provides 40%, Guocuo 郭厝 provides 10%, Beicheng 北埕 provides 20%, and Xiahoukeng 下后坑 provides 10%. 
V532 Shanghouting 上后亭 1. Village settlement The total population of Shanghouting is approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples Xuanyingdong 玄瀛洞 is also called the Sangongdian 三公殿. The main god is Lizu xianshi 李祖仙师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, all the gods of Xuanyingdong 玄瀛洞 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of the Baofushê 保福社 in Guocuo village go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Baofushê in Guocuo village, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/17: The birthday celebration of Lizu xianshi 李祖仙师. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社 (of Guocuo village). Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V533 Beicheng 北埕 1. Village settlement The total population of Beicheng is approximately 350 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhou 周. 3. Village temples Fupinggong 福平宫: The main god is Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Secondary gods include Huang jiangjun 黄将军, Huang zhongjun 黄中军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, all the gods of Fupinggong 福平宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/1, all the gods of the Baofushê 保福社 of Guocuo village go on procession within each of the villages that worship at its shê-altar. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/15: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Baofushê 保福社 of Guocuo village. Opera is performed., and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals, and Pudu 普度 (rites of Universal Deliverance) takes place. This is all organized by Baofushê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V534 Dongzhang 东张 1. Village settlement The total population of Dangzhang 东张 is around 895 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Huang 黄, the Lu 卢, the Liu 刘, the Wang 王, and the Cai 蔡. There is no main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yi’anshê 义安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Ziyunmiao 紫云庙: The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Dongshan shuyuan 东山书院: The main god is Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母, Zhuyi xiansheng 朱衣先生, Zhuzi xiansheng 朱子先生, Poqiao jiangjun 破窍将军, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 4) Canglongmiao 苍龙庙: The main god is Kusi dawang 库司大王. 5) Yibentang 义本堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13 all the gods of Yianshê 义安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/8: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 6/15: The birthday celebration of Kusi dawang 库司大王. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣候. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On all the above occasions, opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V535 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The total population of Tiancuo is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yianshê 义安社 branched off from Yianshê 义安社 of Dongzhang 东张. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上 圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, all the gods of Yianshê 义安社 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A116 Qinhou wujia (Qinhou five jia ritual alliance) 沁后五甲 The five jia ritual alliance of Qinhou is located along the foothills of the Zixiao Mountain 紫宵山. The water for the irrigation of the fields of this area comes primarily from the Linquanbei Weir 林泉陂. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu (police/defense unit) 东张山后铺 of Xingjiaoli (subcanton) 兴教里. In the early Qing, the villages of Qinhou 沁后, Qinshan 沁山, Fushan 浮山 and Xiazheng 下邓 were settled. By the late Qing, the villages of Dingdeng 顶邓, Banling 半岭 and Wengcuo 翁厝 had separated off. The current population of the alliance is close to 3000 people, living in approximately 800 households. The main livelihoods are agriculture and forestry. Many villagers work in small foreign-funded enterprises. These villages are managed by the Qinhou Administrative Village 沁后行政村. Fuxingshê 福兴社, located in Dengcuo 邓厝 village, is the ancestral shê altar of the seven jia ritual alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. During the Yuanxiao festival, each of the ritual associations of the alliance takes turns to go on procession to the temple to invite the gods back to their village. Collective rites and processions have not been revived. This area has eight main surname groups (ranked by population size): the Deng 邓, the Cai 蔡, the Weng 翁, the Ma 马, the Guan 关, the Chen 陈, the Zhu 朱 and the Hong 洪. The Deng 邓 came from Baimo Jiufeng 白磨 九峰. The Deng lineage is divided into four branches. The Cai 蔡 came from Chiding 池顶 village in Tongan 同安. These Cai are of the same ancestry as the Cai of Dongsha 东沙 in Lingchuan 灵川. There used to be an ancestral hall, but now the Qinhou elementary school 沁后小学 is located at the old site. The Cai lineage genealogy has recently been compiled but is yet to be printed. The origins of the Weng 翁 surname group is unknown. The Ma 马 came from Quanzhou 泉州. As for the Guan 关, the surname was originally the compound surname Shang Guan 上官. It was then shortened to Guan 关 for an unidentified reason. The Chen 陈 came from Chenqiao 陈桥, and Qinhou five jia ritual alliance have less than ten households in the alliance. Both the Hong 洪 and the Zhu 朱 came from Fushan 浮山. Both surname groups have very few people (only a few households each). There are also the Zheng 郑 and the Yao 姚 in Xiatiancuo 下田厝. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Qinghou villages were part of the white banner alliance. 
V536 Dengcuo 邓厝 1. Village settlement Dengcuo is divided into two jia 甲 neighborhoods: Shangdeng 上邓 and Xiadeng 下邓. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Deng 邓. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Fuxingshê 沁后境福兴社 was rebuilt in Qing Daoguang 21 (1841). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Wuguxian 五谷仙 (Shennongshi 神农氏), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions The Spring Festival 春节 celebrations are held on 1/1. The event is organized by the shê 社. Opera is performed for one to two days. On 1/15, the shêlu 社炉 incense burners is taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession and a feast is organized. There are no shentong mediums and the gods do not go on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/29: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three to six days. The event is hosted by the shê 社. 5/15: A celebration is held for Shennongshi 神农氏. The four jia of Heping 和平四甲 take turns to each sponsor one day of opera performances. 8/13: A celebration is held for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 . Opera is performed for around two days. This event is hosted by Niushan 牛山. The expense for opera performances is either raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. 5. Ritual groups There is a hereditary family of Daoist masters Shigong 师公 living in the village. 
V537 Niushan 牛山 1. Village settlement Niushan is also known as Fushan 浮山 and includes Guoshan. The population size is unknown. 2. Village Surnames Surnames include the Ma 马, the Hong 洪, and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Ruiyunmiao 沁后境瑞云庙 (Dapumiao 大埔庙). The main god worshipped is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Daoshantang 道善堂: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Mingshantang 明山堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Jishansi 继善寺: This Buddhist monastery has been abandoned. There is currently a forest farm on the site of the former temple. 5) Qinhoujing Qinshanmiao 沁后境沁山庙: The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is invited to practice the Dao 行道 in every household, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods On 4/2–4, and on 4/8, a celebration is held for the birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This event is organized by Fushan 浮山. 3/3: A celebration is held for Xuantian shangdi’s 玄天上帝 birthday. Opera is performed for the birthday celebration of three to four days. This is funded by donations raised on a per capita basis. 
V538 Qinwei 沁尾 1. Village settlement There are approximately 850 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The surname groups are unknown. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Xinganshê 沁后境兴安社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Qingyundian 青云殿: The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Zhuoshi zhenren 卓氏真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the shêlu 社炉 incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 12/26: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 
V539 Xiatiancuo 下田厝 1. Village settlement Xiatiancuo is also known as Minzhu 民主. There are approximately 400 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Qinhoujing Xinglongshê 沁后境兴隆社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the shêlu 社炉 incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Lanterns are taken on procession and the gods of the village go on procession. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/22: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is held. 
A117 Weiyang sanjia (Weiyang three jia ritual alliance) 渭阳三甲 
V540 Weiyang 渭阳 1. Village settlement The three jia alliance of Weiyang is located along the foothills of the Zixiao Mountains 紫霄山. The water for irrigating the fields is mostly drawn from the Mingcukeng trench 明厝坑圳 and the Shuangyikeng trench 双义坑圳, diverting water from the mountains behind the village. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu 东张山后铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing the village of Weizhuang 围庄 was settled here. There are currently 1100 people living in the village whose main livelihood is agriculture. Weiyang produces an abundance of dragon eyes (longan) 龙眼 and loquats 枇杷. The village is managed by the Weiyang Administrative Village 渭阳行政村. The temple ritual system is divded according to settlements into three ritual associations. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Weiyang was part of the red (neutral) banner alliance, but their leaned towards the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups the main surname group of Weicuo 尾厝 is the Huang 黄. Other surnames include more than ten Lin 林 households. The main surname groups in Banshan 半山 are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. Other surnames include the Lai 赖 and the Zhou 周. Shipaidou 石牌兜 has the Zhong 钟 and the Chen 陈. The Huang 黄 of Weiyang migrated from Weiyang three jia ritual alliance Anhai 安海 in Quanzhou 泉州 during the Qing Dynasty, and have now reached their eleventh generation. In the late Qing, these Huang were the greatest mercantile lineage in the Hanjiang region. The Huang built the Yixing ancestral hall 义兴宗祠 and the Ruiyu ancestral hall 瑞裕宗祠, but both have been abandoned. 3. Village temples 1) Weizhuangjing Huashanshê 渭庄境华山社 (also known as the Dongshê 东社): Located in Weicuo 尾厝, it was rebuilt in 1980. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sansheng zhejun 三圣真君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Left altar: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Jinlinmiao 金林庙 is located in Banshan 半山. The gods worshipped are: Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Huashan xishê 华山西社 is located in Banshan 半山. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君. Secondary gods: Wugu daxian 五谷大仙. 4) Anfumiao 安福庙 is located in Banshen半山. Main gods: Tianshang shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Zhudaye 朱 大爷, Dou sheren 豆舍人, Erye 二爷 and Sanye 三爷. 5) Qingyundong 庆云洞 is located in Shipaidou 石牌兜. Main god: Zhong kui 钟馗. 6) Tongmingsi 通明寺 is located in Shipaidou 石牌兜. Middle: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Left: Weituo 韦驮. Right: Jialan 伽蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13, the three neighborhoods of Weiyang take incense burners to each household to practice the Dao 行道, but do this separately. On 1/14, a procession is held within the entire village and the crossroads into the community are sealed 封道. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The three jia each select a fushou 福首 headman to organize these events together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/18: The birthday celebration of Zhongkuigong 钟馗公 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by Shipaidou, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by Weicuojia 尾厝甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 5/29: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huashan xishê 华山西社. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This event is organized by Banshanjia 半山甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/6: The birthday celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rites. This evens is organized by Banshanjia 半山甲, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/22: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the Chen 陈 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/9: The birthday celebration of Lufu daren 鲁府大人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the Lai 赖 and the Zhou 周 of Banshan 半山, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 12/5: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Huashanshê 华山社 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by Weicuo 尾厝, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A118 Sanshan sanshê (Sanshan three shê ritual alliance) 三山三社 The three shê alliance of Sanshan is located in the foothills of the Zixiao Mountains 紫霄山, at the base of three small hills near the northern edge of the northern irrigated plain. Their water for irrigation comes primarily from the Linquan Weir 林泉陂 and the Mingcuokeng trench 明厝坑圳. This area was part of the Dongzhang Shanhoupu (police/defense unit) 东张山后 铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing the three villages of Jingtou 井头, Xiake 下柯, and Shanhou 山后 were settled. The current population of these villages is over 2300 people, and they are managed by the Sanshan Administrative Village 三山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into three shê. Tongji yuewanggong 通济越王宫 temple, located in Xiake 下柯 village, is the main temple of the three shê village alliance. The main god is Yuewang 
A118 Sanshan three shê ritual alliance dadi 越王大帝. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, the three shê take turns going on procession to the temple to request incense fire. On lunar 1/14 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated, and the gods of the temple are carried in a procession to each of the three villages. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three villages of Sanshan were all part of the white banner alliance. 
V541 Jingtou 井头 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Xu 许 and forty to fifty Lin 林 households. It is said that the Lin emigrated from Chizhu 赤柱 of Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Fushoushê 福寿社 was rebuilt in Guangxu 8 (1882). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Dabentang 大本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 165 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 to request incense fire 香火, and take the incense burners to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three shê alliance. At night, the lanterns are paraded, palm sedan chair are carried around and fire walking ceremonies are held. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 9/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V542 Xiake 下柯 1. Village settlement The entire village has 492 people. 2. Surname groups The Ke 柯 makes up 70–80% of the total population. Other surnames include six Chen 陈 households, one Wang 王 household, and more than ten Wu 吴 households. It is said that the Ke came from Kezhu 柯朱 in Ling chuan 灵川 and from Liuqiao 柳桥 in Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 was built in the Guangxu 25 (1899) and was renovated in 1989. Middle altar: Yuewang dadi 越王大帝. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Wusheng tianfei 吴圣天妃, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lugong dianshuai 鲁公殿帅. 2) Fuxingmiao 福兴庙, Fuyoushê 福佑社 was rebuilt in 1986 and again in 2004. Upper altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣 侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Ganyingtang 感应堂 was renovated in 1988. On the upper altar: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Middle altar: Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Left altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 request incense fire 香火, and the incense burners are taken to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three-fold shê. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/1–3: The birthday celebration of Yuewang dadi 越王大帝 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the three-fold shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8./25: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V543 Shanhou 山后 1. Village settlement Shanhou village has approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Li 李, the Zhang 张 and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples 1) Lingyin zushê 灵隐祖社 was built in the Qianlong period and was rebult in 1921, 1985 and in 2000. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Wenxinmiao 文新庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Baishenmiao 百神庙: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Yang jiuniang 杨九娘. 4) Feihudian 飞虎殿: Main god: Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 5) Miaodetang 妙德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records 235 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 2/12–13 villagers go to Tongji Yuewanggong 通济越王宫 to request incense fire 香火, and then they carry the incense burners to every household to practice the Dao 行道. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/14, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 are invited to go on procession throughout the three shê alliance. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. The procession is organized by the three shê, and funds are collected on a per capita basis throughout the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/1–3: The birthday celebration of Yuewang dadi 越王大帝 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. These events are organized by the three-fold shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. In the 4th lunar month, on a day determined by divination, the birthday celebration of all the gods of Baifumiao 百福庙 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The village shê organizes the ritual, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A119 Wanyang sishê (Wanyang four shê ritual alliance) 碗洋四社 The four-shê ritual alliance of Wanyang is located in the foothills of the Zixiao mountains 紫宵山. Water for irrigation is primarily drawn from the Guantang 官塘 Reservoir and the Chengtang 澄塘 reservoir. This area was part of the Wanyao Houhuangpu (police/defense unit) 碗窑后黄铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. In the early Qing, the village of Wanyao 碗窑 was settled. Currently, the area includes the villages of Xiyang 西洋, Houyang 后洋, Gelong 隔垄 and Tiancuo 田厝. These villages are managed by 
A119 Wanyang four ritual alliance the Wanyang Administrative Village 碗洋行政村. The temple ritual order is divided on the basis of shê-altar temples into four shê. The Guanshengmiao 关圣庙 temple, located in Xiyang 西洋 village, is the main temple for the four-shê ritual alliance. The main god of the temple is Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Each year on lunar 2/2—the toufu (first day of good fortune)—the god is taken on a tour of inspection around each shê. The three main surnames of the village are the Huang 黄, the Shi 施, and the Chen 陈. There are also the Weng 翁 and Lin 林 minor surname groups. It is said that the first person to move to the village was one Huang Wuqing 黄斌卿 during the Yuan. The Shi 施 emigrated from Jinjiang 晋江 to Donghu 洞湖 during the mid-Ming, and then migrated to the village of Wanyang from Donghu 洞湖. The village was called Tiantoucuo 田头厝 at that time. The Shi 施 lineage is divided into two major branches, and the first branch has sub-divided into four branches while the second branch currently is subdivided into five branches. The Shi 施 have a total population of 300 people. The second branch has the most people, with approximately 200 people. The second branch of the Shi has an ancestral hall, but the lineage genealogy has been destroyed. The ancestral tomb was originally in Sanshan 三山, but has already been destroyed. The Huang, making up approximately 400 people, live mainly in Houyang 后洋. The Huang moved here from Donghuang 东黄 in Chengzhu village 澄渚村. They are divided into four branches, of which the third branch has the most people, making up approximately 30% of the total population of the Huang. There originally was an Huang 黄 ancestral hall. The Chen 陈 have approximately 250 people who are divided into six lineage branches, of which three branches are in Xiyang 西洋 while the other three branches are in Gelong 隔垄. The Chen had an ancestral hall, but it has been transformed into a warehouse for cardboard boxes. In the feuding alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê alliance of Wanyang were all members of the red banner alliance. 
V544 Xiyang 西洋 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 300 people. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Shi 施, Huang 黄, and Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Wanyangjing Guanshengmiao 碗洋境关圣庙 was built in Ming Chongzhen 3 (1630). Main god: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Secondary gods: Zhou Cang 周仓, Guan Ping 关平, Ma jiangjun 马将军 (Weiwu jiangjun 威武将军), Zhang Bao 张苞, Zhang Lei 张累, Guan Xing 关兴, Wang Yong 王用. The rear hall has a 2) Wenchangge 文昌阁: Main god: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods: Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. This temple is one of the five great temples of Putian, and it preserves ten pieces (40 cm × 10 cm) of a Ming dynasty divinatory poetry board 签支板 and numerous carved couplets. It is said that Huang Kangqin 黄康钦, the Commander 总兵 of Zhoushan 舟山 of Zhejiang province 浙江 during the Ming Dynasty, was from Wanyang 碗洋. During his fight against Japanese pirates 倭寇, Emperor Guan (Guandi) 关帝 manifested 显灵 to help him win. Thus he made bronze statues of Guan Yu 关羽, Guan Ping 关平, and Zhou Cang 周仓, and shipped them back to Putian. During the process, a huge tide hit them and the statues of Guan Ping and Zhou Cang sank, leaving only Guan Yu’s statue. Local commander Huang 黄总兵 was later killed, and the blood that came out of him was blue. He was vindicated afterwards and granted the title of Guogong 国公 (the place was originally called Guogongpo 国公坡). 2) Zongkongci 宗孔祠: Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This celebration is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, on the day of Toufu 头福, a common Yuanxiao 总元宵 is held in the four village alliance. Lanterns are taken on a procession around the four village alliance. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These rituals are organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V545 Houyang 后洋 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples Longjin shê 龙津社 is co-owned by Houyang 后洋, Xiyang 西洋, and Donghuang 东黄. Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–16, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V546 Gelong 隔垄 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Shi 施 and the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples Fulong dongshê 浮龙东社 was built during the earlyQing Dynasty (others also say that it was built during the Ming Dynasty). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village Opera is performed, and Dao ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2 the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns go on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held. Opera is performed for four days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/22: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人is held. Opera is performed for two to three days, Scripture masters 师公 are invited to chant the scriptures. This is organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V547 Tiancuo 田厝 1. Village settlement The entire village has approximately 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanshê 龙山社: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qingshansi 青山寺: Main god: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Qinglonggong 青龙宫 is dedicated to Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Qingfudian 清福殿: Main god: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods are Baidaren 白大人 and Xietian dadi协天上帝. 5) Jinshangfu 金沙府 is dedicated to Wangdaren 王大人. 6) Qinglinggong 青灵宫: Main god: Lubu dashen. Secondary gods are Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 are invited to go on procession within the village. Opera is performed, and Dao- ist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. These events are organized by the village itself, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 2/2, the Toufu 头福 rite (beginning good fortune) is celebrated as an overall Yuanxiao 总元宵. Lanterns are taken on procession around the village territory. Opera is performed in Guanshengmiao 关圣庙, and five Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with opera. 4/27: The birthday celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held with opera. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held with opera for four days. 6/24: The birthday celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is held with opera for four days. 8/10: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. On a day determined by divination in the lunar 11th month, the birthday celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is held. On all these occasions, Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. Some of these rituals are organized by the village as a whole, while others are orangized by the entire four shê alliance, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A120 Houhuang ershê (Houhuang two shê ritual alliance) 后黄二社 
V548 Houhuang 后黄) 1. Village settlement Houhuang is located in between the Yanshou Weir irrigation system 延寿陂 and the Taiping Weir irrigation system太平陂. This area was part of the Wanyao Houhuangpu (police/defense unit) 碗窑 后黄铺 of the Xingjiaoli sub-canton 兴教里. The village was settled in the Ming. The entire village has approximately 1000 people. Houhuang an independent natural village, as well as being managed by an Administrative Village of the same name. The main source of income used to be agriculture and weaving in the past, but now it’s mostly fruit trees (dragon eyes, loquat). The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of settlements and lineages into two shê altars. The village also has approximately twenty households of Christian believers. 
A120 Houhuang two shê ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Houhuang was part of the red banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The surnames of the village includes the Xu 许, Huang 黄, Wu 吴, and Lin 林, of which the Xu and the Huang makes up more than 90% of the total population, while there are only a few households of the Wu and the Lin. The Xu makes up around 60% of the population. They are divided into four branches: Xincuoli 新厝里, Xiacuoli 下厝里, Gebili 隔壁里, and Cuozi 厝仔, of which Xincuoli has the greatest number of people, although the precise number is unclear. There is an ancestral hall that is used during the Yuanxiao festivals 元宵. The ancestral tombs are in Xipo 西坡. The Huang, making up close to 40% of the total population, emigrated from Huangxia 黄霞 (Huangxiang in Hanjiang), and are part of the Jiangxia Liufang 江夏流芳 line. There is an ancestral hall. Their genealogy is kept in Huangxia 黄霞 near Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Houhuangjing Taoyuanshê 后黄境桃源社 includes the Taoyuan dongshê 桃源东社 and the Taoyuan xishê 桃源西社. This temple was originally built in the early Ming dynasty and was rebuilt in the Guangxu period (1875–1908). Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days starting on 9/16. Secondary gods: Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dadi 中天大帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Meihua ziniang 梅花子娘, Heihu xuanwang 黑虎宣王 and Taoli jiangjun 桃李将军. 2) Longhua shuyuan 龙华书院 was built in the Qing, and was rebuilt in the 1980s. Main god: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods: Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰. The SJCDCB, 1992:36 records 143 initiates. 3) Fengshangong 凤山宫 was recently rebuilt. Main god: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Zhende’an 贞德庵 was recently rebuilt. Main god: Guanyin dashi 观音 大士. Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝, Shan tongzi 善童子, Xianzhu longzhou 献珠龙舟. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–12 Taoyuan dongshê 桃源东社 invites Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 to go on procession within its territory. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. At night, lanterns are paraded and palm sedan chair are carried around. This is organized by the Huang 黄, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–15, Taoyuan xishê 桃源西社 invites Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 and Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅 to go on procession within its territory. At night, lanterns are paraded and palm sedan chair are carried around. Opera is performed, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rituals. This is organized by the Xu 许, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 9/16: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to chant the scriptures. The entire village organizes the ritual together, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 10/29: Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. Three in One Daoyou 道友 are invited to chant the scriptures 念经. 
A121 Loutou sishê (Loutou four shê ritual alliance) 漏头四社 
V549 Loutou 漏头 1. Village settlement The village of Loutou is located within the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂. This area was part of the Loutoupu 漏头铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli 兴教里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Loutou was already settled. In the Qing the village of Fangzhuang 方庄 divided off. There are currently more than 2200 people living in the village. The village is managed by the Loutou Administrative Village 漏头 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to lineage groupings into four she-altars: Shoushê 首社 belongs to the Huang 黄; Zhongshê 中社 belongs to the Liang 梁, the Xu 许 and the Wu 吴; Xishê 西社 belongs to the Ke 柯, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾 and the Liu 刘; Dongshê 东社 belongs to the Wang 王. Formerly, Fangzhuang 方庄 belonged to Loutou sishê 漏头 四社. Nowadays this village no longer participates in the common Yuanxiao procession of Loutou 漏头. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the village of Loutou was part of the white banner alliance. The main livelihoods are agriculture but many female workers work in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Wang 王 and the Liang 梁. Other surnames include the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, and the Li 李. The Wang 王 came from Sanshan 三山 (Fuzhou) from Fenghuoshan 峰火山 near Fangzhuang 方庄 of Xizhuang village 西庄村. There is a Wang ancestral hall 王氏宗祠 in Loutou village. The Liang 梁 came from Liangcuo 梁厝 of Hushi 笏石 during the Qianlong period. Their ancestor is known as De Xuan Gong (Master De Xuan) 德玄公. The Liang are divided into three lineage branches: Wanbao 万宝, Wanjin 万金, and Wanzhu 万珠. They are now in their ninth generation in the village. The Ke 柯 came from Xiake Loutou four shê ritual alliance village 下柯 of the Sanshan 三山 (Fuzhou) region. The Li 李 came from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village temples 1) Beijidian 北极殿: Middle altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Right altar: Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 2) Chongfutang 崇福堂: This temple was renovated in 1987. Middle hall: Middle altar: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left hall: Wenchang dijun 文昌 帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. Right hall: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君. Rear hall: Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 3) Denglongshê 登龙社 was originally built in Ming Hongwu 16 (1383) (according to the Xu Lineage Genealogy 许氏族谱). This temple is co-owned by the Shoushê 首社, the Zhongshê 中社 and the Xishê 西社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the four divine generals 四神将 (the Zhu 朱, Tao 桃, Jin 金, and Li 李). 4) Denglong dongshê 登龙东社 was renovated in 1985. Middle altar middle niche 中龛: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left niche 左龛: Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugong shenghou 吴公圣侯. Right niche 右龛: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Left altar: Dutong dawang 都统大王, Duguan pusa 都管菩萨. Right altar: Oushi furen 欧氏夫人, Heihu shenjiang 黑虎神将, Huban dashen 虎班大神. 5) Longfenggong 龙凤宫 was originally built in Guangxu 26 (1900) and is dedicated to the following gods: Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Fuling zushi 法灵祖师, Liu daren 刘大人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天 大帝, Kefu zhenren 柯府真人, Lufu jungong 鲁府军公. 6) Longlingong 龙麟宫 was built in 1948. Middle altar: Taishang laojun 太上老君. Left altar: Shuaigong shenghou 帅公圣侯, Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 7) Yuanben shuyuan 元本书院: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. Lanpenpudu 兰盆 rituals are held here on 11/ 6. 8) Yunlinsi 云林寺: Middle: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛; Left: Guanyin dashi 观 音大士; Right: Damo zushi 达摩祖师. 9) Shengfutang 升福堂: The main god is Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 10) Jingfugong 景福宫: The main god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Li daye 李大爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Zhongshê 中社 and Dongshê 东社 go on a procession with the gods to each household to xingdao practice the Dao 行道. On 1/14 the Shoushê 首社 and Xishê 西社 go on a procession with the gods to each household to xingdao practice the Dao 行道. On 1/15 Dutong daren 都统大人, Duguan pusa 都管菩萨 and Oushi furen 欧氏夫人 go on a procession within the village. The god’s chairs are carried through fire 踏火 and three Daoist ritual masters 道士 are invited to conduct the Jiao ritual. On 2/2 a common Yuanxiao 元宵 is held and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on procession within the village. Lanterns are taken on procession around the ritual territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/ 8: Toutiaoxi 头条戏 is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 2/2: The toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) rites are celebrated with two days of opera, with funds raised on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by Dongshê 东社. 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village as a whole. 3/16: The birthday celebration of Xuantan Zhao yuanshuai 玄坛赵元帅. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village as a whole, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 10/6: The first celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by Shoushê 首社. 10/7: The second celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by the Zhongshê 中社. 10/8: The third celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫人 of the Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by the Xishê 西社. 10/15: The fourth celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen’s 后土夫 of Denglongshê 登龙社 is organized by Dongshê 东社. Contributions for all the above events are collected on a per capita basis within the part of the village involved. 
V550 Fangzhuang 方庄 1) Village settlement people. The current population of Fangzhuang is about 200 2) Surname groups The main surname groups are the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. 3) Village temples 1) Longyuanshê 龙元社, Longyuangong 龙元宫: Main gods: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Shuishen 水神, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lifu daren 李府大人, Sandu yuanshuai 三都元帅 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 2) Fulinggong 绂麟宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu daren 鲁府大人, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Liushenghou 刘圣侯 and Jinshenghou 金圣侯. Rituals Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the incense burner of the she-altar is taken on procession to every household within the village to xingdao practice the Dao. Birthday celebration of the gods 8/14: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
A122 Wutang qijing (Wutang sevenfold ritual alliance) 梧塘七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Wutang is located along the upper channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Wutangpu 梧塘铺 (police/defense unit) and the Fenglin Linwaipu 林外铺 of Xingjiaoli 兴教里 (sub-canton). In the Ming, the villages of Shangwutang 上吴塘村 and Fengling 枫岭村 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Xiatou 下头, Taibeizhuang 太白庄, Qianzhuang 前庄, Gucen 古岑, and Linwai 林外 divided off. These villages are now managed by four Administrative Villages, namely Fenglin 枫林, Xialou 霞楼, Xizhuang 西庄 and Dongfu 东福行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to village into the seven independent ritual units of Linwai 林外, Meiling 梅岭, Dongpai 东牌, Fuxingshê 福兴社, Taibaizhuang 太白庄, Xizhuang 西庄 (Qianzhuang 前庄) and Xialou 下楼 (Xiatou 下头). Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社 temple, located in Fengling 枫岭 village, is the ancestral she-altar of the sevenfold ritual alliance, while Chengyingdian 诚应殿 of Taibaizhuang 太白庄 is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each village in the alliance goes on procession to these temples to invite the gods back to their village. Each year on lunar 1/17 the main god of the Chengyingdian 诚应殿, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, is carried in a procession around all the villages in the sevenfold ritual alliance. Wutang sevenfold ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the village of Xialou 霞楼 was part of the white banner alliance, while the other villages were part of the red banner alliance. However, the village of Xizhuang 西庄 was inclined towards the black banner alliance. 
V551 Linwai 林外 1. Village settlement Linwai was originally called Linwaishê 林外社. Linwai village is a part of the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. The three jiao (corners, i.e., neighborhoods) of Linwai 林外三角 are Pengcuo 彭厝, Laicuo 赖厝, and Xiacuohuang 下厝黄. There are close to 1700 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Su and the Chen. The Su 苏 came from Wugong 武功 and the Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. Other surnames are the Tu 涂, Zhou 周, Li 李, and the Zhang 张 from Guitang 桂塘. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. Tombs are swept on Qingming 清明 festival, but there is no common worshipping. In Pengcuo 彭厝, the main surname groups are the Yao 姚, Zheng 郑, and the Peng 彭. In Laicuo 赖厝, the main surname group is the Lai 赖. In Xiacuohuang 下厝黄, the main surname group is the Huang 黄, which has two branches: one came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, and one from the mountains, the Huang of Shanli 山里黄. 3. Village temples 1) Linwaijing Xianglong fushê 林外境香龙福社: Originally built on Mount Gui 龟山 in 1503, it was relocated here in 1580. An stele from Qing Daoguang 15 (1835) has been preserved. The main gods worshipped are Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. 2) Fuchenggong 福成宫 is also known as Xiacuo Wuwanggong 下厝五 王宫. The main gods worshipped are Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Other gods include Langong dashen 兰公大神, Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝, Xie daren 谢大人, Huang daren 黄大人 and Li daren 李大人. 3) Chongbentang 重本堂 in Laicuo 赖厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 325 initiates. 4) Qinglongmiao 青龙庙 in Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Pengcuo 彭厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/12 Laicuo 赖厝 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/13 Xiacuohuang 下厝黄 invites the incense burners and the gods of the Xianglong fushê 香龙福社 on a procession. On 1/17 A common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is offered three days of opera. 2/25: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is offered two days of opera 4/13: Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 are offered three days of opera 7/6: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 are offered two days of opera. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Fazhu Zhanggong shengjun 法主张公圣君. Contributions for the opera and Daoist rituals for these occasions are collected from each dui 队 (production brigade) on a per capita basis. 
V552 Meiling 梅岭 1. Village settlement Meiling is also know as Fengli 枫林 and belongs to the Fenglin Administrative Village 枫林行政村. Meiling is divided into four jia 甲 neighborhoods: Changjijia 长基甲 has 738 people, Linganjia 林干甲 has 338 people, Luoganjia 罗干甲 has 200 people, and Wuzhongjia 吾中甲 has 585 people, for a total of 1921 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Cai 蔡. Other surnames include the Luo 罗 and the Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Meiling Wuzhong Fenglingjing Xiangyingshê 梅岭 吾中凤岭境香应社 used to be the main temple of Linwai 林外总社. Then Longxishê 龙溪社 branched out from this temple and gradually gained popularity and recognition that surpassed that of Xiangyingshê 香应社. Thus, it replaced Xiangyingshê 香应社 and became known as Longxi zushê (Dragon stream founding altar of the soil and the harvest) 龙溪祖社. The main gods worshipped in the temple are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Wanggong ye 王公爷 and Huoshen ye 火神爷. 2) Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社 is in the Fengling shengjing 凤岭胜境. The temple was expanded during the Ming Wanli period (1573–1620). This temple is the zushê (ancestral altar) 祖社 of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Aotang 鳌塘七境. (Chengyingdian 诚应殿 of Taibaizhuang 太白庄 of Wutang 梧 塘 is the main temple of that sevenfold ritual alliance. Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝 goes on procession within that sevenfold ritual alliance). The main gods worshipped in the Longxi zushê are Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普 济圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 3) Shihuici 世惠祠 is dedicated to the five people who constructed and repaired the 太平陂 Taiping Weir and its irrigation canals—the Wuwei zunshen 五位尊神 who were all judged to have performed major deeds of merits. They are He Yu 何玉, Liu E 刘谔, Cai Xiang 蔡襄, Zeng Yonghu 曾用虎, and Zhang Nie 章蘖. Chenfu daren 陈府大人is also worshipped. This shrine was originally built in Song Shaoxing 2 (1132). The Fengshanci 凤山祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and to Xiaoxing zushi 孝行祖师. 3) Jiaruimiao 嘉瑞庙: This temple was built in Jiajing 35 (1556), and is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Meiling Cigongge 梅岭慈公阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–16, each jia invites in rotation Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 to go on procession. A spirit medium accompanies the procession. On 1/17, a common Yuanxiao celebration of sevenfold ritual alliance is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration for Xiaoxing zushi 孝行祖师 is held, with two days of opera. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held, with three days of opera. This organization of this events rotates annually from the Xingyinshê to the Longxi zushê 龙溪祖社. 4/26: The celebration for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held, with two days of opera. 9/3: The celebration for Wuxian lingguan 五显灵官 is held, with two to three days of opera. 10/15: The Lanpen pudu 兰盆 ritual is held. Nuns from the Cigongge 慈公阁 perform the rites. The expenses for opera performances and Daoist rituals for the birthday celebrations of gods above are apportioned to every dui 队 (production brigade) and raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups Every year, each jia nominates one Fushou 福首 on the basis of age to run the village ritual activities. 
V553 Xizhuang 西庄 1. Village settlement Xizhuang village is a part of the Xizhuang Administrative Village. 西庄行政村 The entire village currently has more than 2200 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. The Chen are divided into at least two groups, the Da Chen and the Xiao Chen (greater and lesser Chen). Other surname groups include the Lu 卢, the Zhu 朱, the Lin 林, the Fang 方, the Zheng 郑, the Qiu 邱, and the Liu 刘. The Chen 陈 came from Kuokou 阔口. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiaoli Aotangjing Longxingshê 兴教里鳌塘境 隆兴社: Originally built during the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1736), the temple was renovated in 1985. A stele from Xianfeng 10 (1860) is preserved in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Gong daren 龚大人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhongkui shengjun 钟馗圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Dutong yuanshuai 都统元帅 and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 2) Xingxianmiao 兴贤庙 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Wanlingong 万麟宫 was originally built during the Qing Qianlong period. The main gods worshipped are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Other gods include Jin daren 金大人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 4) Tianhougong 天后宫: Originally built in 1926, the temple was renovated in 1991. Main gods: Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods: Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 5) Taipingmiao 太平庙: Main gods: Lufu xianggong 鲁府相公, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Other gods: Huangcang 黄仓, Baicang 白仓. 6) Dunbentang 敦本堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. Right: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Lu 卢 paoxiang 跑香 (run with the incense), and invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/12 the Greater Chen 大陈 also paoxiang 跑香 (run with the incense), and invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao. On 1/13, the Lesser Chen 小陈 together with the Lin 林, the Zhu 朱, the Zheng 郑, and the Fang 方 do the same. On 1/14, the Great Chen 大陈 qifu (pray for blessings) 祈福 by inviting Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 to go on a tour of inspection around the boundaries of their territory in the village 绕境巡游. On 1/15 the Lesser Chen 小陈 together with the Lin 林, the Zhu 朱, the Zheng 郑, and the Fang 方 do the same set of rites and processions within their own territory. On 1/16, the Lu 卢 pray for blessings, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 are again taken on a procession around their territory. On 1/17, the village attends the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration for Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4/13: The celebration for Zhuzhu mingwang and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 8/23: The celebration for Gong daren 龚大人. 9/9: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Every year, opera is performed approximately seven times, each time lasting for two to three days. Every time, the expenses for opera performances are raised on a per capita basis. 
V554 Taibaizhuang 太白庄 1. Village settlement Taibaizhuang village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village 东福行政村. The settlement of the Xingjiaoli (sub-canton), Aotangjing, Taibaizhuang village 兴教里鳌塘境太白庄 began during the Qing Dynasty. There are currently more than 853 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The Xu 许 make up 50%, and the Yang 杨 30% of the village population. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, the Cai 蔡 with seven or eight households, the Hong 洪 with two households, the Wu 吴 and the Zhu 朱 with one household each. The Xu 许 came from Shigu 石鼓 in Yongchun county 永春县. Their ancestor’s ancestral house 祖栋 and ancestral tombs 祖墓 are in Qiulu 萩芦. The Yang 杨氏 also came from Yongchun 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiaoli aotangjing chengyingdian 兴教里鳌塘境 诚应殿: was originally built in Qianlong 18 (1753), and was rebuilt in 1984. A stele from the Xianfeng 1 (1851) is preserved in the temple. This temple is the main temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance of Xizhuang 西庄, including the villages of Dongpai 东牌, Fuxingshê 福兴社, Xialou 霞楼, Taibaizhuang 太白庄, Linwai 林外, and Fengling 枫岭. The main god of the temple is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include the four marshalls 四大元帅: Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. Left altar: Jialan dadi 伽蓝大帝. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 2) Fuxing xinshê 福兴新社: Originally built in Xianfeng 2 (1852), this temple was renovated in 1987. The main gods worshipped are: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元 帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 3) Dunbentang 敦本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. His celebration is held on 7/15. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records sixty-five initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, the villagers invite the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 there are lantern processions that form circles of linked lanterns quandeng 圈灯, and paoxiang 跑香 running with incense, and tahuo 踏火 firewalking rituals. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct the Jiao ritual. The following gods go on procession and take a tour of inspection of the village boundaries (in six palm sedan chair 棕桥: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王). On 1/17 an overall procession is held for the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. This event is organized by the Chengyingdian 诚应殿. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 (funds raised by the entire sevenfold ritual alliance). Opera is performed for two days. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration for Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration for Tudigong’s 土地公 birthday. Opera is performed for three days. Funds for opera and Daoist rituals are raised on a per capita basis within the village, and supplemented by voluntary donations from the sevenfold ritual alliance and from Overseas Chinese. 
V555 Fuxingshê 福兴社 1. Village settlement Fuxingshê village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village 东福行政村. There are currently more than 593 people living in the village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The Peng 彭 are the main surname group, making up 70–80% of the total population. Other surnames include the Li 李 with four households, the Cai 蔡 with six households, the Huang 黄 with four households, the Hu 胡 with six households, the Zhang 张 with two households, and the Xu 徐 with one household. 3. Village temples The Fuxingshê 福兴社 was rebuilt in 1985. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. Other gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guangze zunwang 广泽 尊王, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统 are taken on procession around the village. On 1/15, there is a paoxiang (running the incense) 跑香 ritual, and lanterns are lit. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/22: The celebration for Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4/13: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4/22: The celebration for Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣. 9/9: The celebration for Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Wugong dutong 吴公都统. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days and Daoist rituals are conducted. Funding is raised on a per capita basis within the village. 5. Ritual groups A single Fushou 福首 is selected each year to run the major rituals of the year. 
V556 Dongpai 东牌 1. Village settlement Dongpai village is a part of the Dongfu Administrative Village东福行政村. There are approximately 2000 people living in Dongpai village. The main livelihood is agriculture. Other occupations include female workers working in the shoe manufacturing industry and other manufacturing industries. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 make up 50%, and the Lin 林 (40%) of the village population. There are also some households surnamed Zheng 郑, and Chen 陈. The Wu came from Shuinan 水南 of Huangshi 黄石. The Lin came from Wushi 乌石 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Aotangjing Xingxiaoli Zhongwu Wanshoushê 鳌塘 境兴孝里忠吴万寿社. This temple was renovated in Guangxu 19 (1893) and again in 1986. The temple is divided into the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 which belongs to the Wu 吴 and the Wanshoushê 万寿社 which belongs to the Lin 林. They worship separate sets of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods worshipped in the Zhongwushê include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Other gods in the Wanshoushê include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gongfu daren 龚府大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 19 (1893) entitled 重修忠吴万寿祖社序 (Preface to the restoration of the Zhongwu Wanshou founding shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:348, No. 312). 2) Dongqinggong 东青宫, Zhuyundian 竹云殿 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母and to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部 大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Secondary gods include Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin shenghou 金圣侯, and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Qiaotou Donglaidian 桥头东来殿 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and to Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Puyintang 普音堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Yangfu jiuniang 杨府九娘. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the Wu 吴 invite many of the gods of the Zhongwushê 忠吴社 to go on a procession: The following gods are placed in six palm sedan chairs 棕轿: Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. The Lin invite four gods from the Wanshoushê 万寿社 to ride in large wooden sedan chairs in a procession. These are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅 and Gongfu daren 龚府大人. Six gods are placed in smaller palm sedan chairs. They are Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Gong daren 龚大人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. On 1/14, the Lin 林 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/15, the Wu 吴 light candles in the temple, and invite Daoist ritual masters to hold a Jiao. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of Wanshoushê 万寿社 are celebrated by the Lin 林. 5/13: The birthday of Sima shengwan 司马圣王 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 5/27: The birthday of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Zhongwushê 万寿社 is celebrated by the Wu 吴. 8/13: The birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai’s 田公元帅 is celebrated by the Lin 林. Due to the restrictions on the location of the opera performance, opera performances usually take place during the sixth lunar month, using the playground in the local elementary school. Opera is performed for five to six days. The expenses are collected on a per capita basis, from within the relevant lineage. 
V557 Xialou 霞楼 1. Village settlement Xialou village was originally called Xialou 下楼 or Xiatou 下头\, and belongs to the Xialou Administrative Village 霞楼行政 村. Xialou village is divided into four jiaoluo (neighborhoods) 角: These are called the first branch 长房, second branch 二房, third branch 三房, and the mixed branch 杂房. There are 2100 people living in the village. The main livelihoods are agriculture and commerce. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. The Lin moved here in Kangxi 18 (1679). The first, second and third branches of the village are all of the Lin surname group. The mixed branch is made up of the Liu 刘, Wu 吴, Chen 陈, Huang 黄, Xu 徐, Zhu 朱, He 何, and Dai 戴. The mixed branch (zafang) 杂房 can be subdivided into Shangza 上杂 and Xiaza 下杂. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral hall. Some villagers worship ancestors on the Qingming 清明 festival, others on the Winter Solstice 冬至. Tombs are swept separately. 3. Village temples 1) Anminshê 安民社 is in Aotangjing 鳌塘境. It was built in Qing Qianlong 16 (1751). The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong yuanshuai 张公元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天 大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 2) Xinfugong 新福宫 belongs to the Toucuocheng Third Branch 头厝埕三房 of the Lin 林 lineage. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Other gods include Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Fulai dian 福来殿 belongs to the second branch 二房 of the Lin. The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 4) Taihemiao 太和庙 was originally built during the late Tang Dynasty, then moved to the present location. It is said that Taihemiao existed before the Taiping Weir and the irrigation system “未有太平陂, 先有太和庙”. The temple now belongs to the Lin 林 of the first branch长房. The temple is often referred to as the East temple (Donggong 东宫). The main gods worshipped are Sima shengwang 司马圣王 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Qiu taibao 邱太保, Chen taibao 陈太保, Zheng taibao 郑太保, and Liu taibao 刘太保. The stone inscription composed in Ming Longqing 6 (1572) by Guo Yingpin 郭应聘 and entitled 修太和庙记 (Record of the repairs to the Temple of Supreme Harmony), is about this temple (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:175, No. 153). 5) Fuansi 福安寺 is dedicated to Rulai fo 如来佛, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽兰. 6) Fuantang 福安堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Ruyitang 如意堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Luoyuanci 罗源祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Yanyuandong 延源洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 10) Daoyuandong 道源洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–14, the first branch 长房 of the Lin 林 lineage take xingdao Sima shengwang on procession to carry out the Dao in each of their households 行道 and then carry the god back to the temple. On 1/13–15, the second and third branches 二房三房 of the Lin 林carry Zhongyuan dashen 中元大圣 to carry out the Dao in each of their households 行道 and then carry the god back to the temple. On 1/16, all of the gods of the Anminshê 安民社, with the exception of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, are taken on a procession through the entire village. On this day also, the middle and lower sections of the “lower mixed branch” 下杂杂房中 race the incense 跑香 (paoxiang), but do not xingdao 行道 (visit each household). The upper mixed branch does neither activity. On 1/17, the villagers attend the common Yuanxiao celebration of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. This is hosted by Fulaidian 福来殿. The expenses for opera performances is paid for by the second branch, by voluntary donations, and by funds raised in the second branch on a per capita basis. Opera is performed for two days. 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. This is hosted by Xinfugong 新福宫. The expenses for the opera performances is paid for by the third branch and by the Upper mixed branch 上杂, by voluntary donations and by funds raised on a per capita basis. Opera is perfumed for two to three days. 4/13: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 Opera is performed for two to three days. This is hosted by the shê (altar) 社 itself, and funded by the entire village, on a per capita basis. 4/23: The birthday celebration of Zhongyuan dasheng 中元大圣. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by the village as a whole, on a per capita basis. 5/13: The birthday celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王. This celebration is hosted by Taihemiao 太和庙 of Dongyang 东阳. The expense for the opera performances are paid for by the first branch 长房 and by the upper mixed branch 上杂. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. Opera is performed two days. 8/23: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. This celebration is hosted by Dongyangmiao 东阳庙. The expenses for opera are paid for by the second branch and the upper mixed branch 上杂. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. Opera is performed for two days. 
A123 Wuzi sanshê (Wuzi three shê ritual alliance) 梧梓三社 
V558 Wuzi 梧梓 1. Village settlement Wuzi village is located along the upper channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Wuzipu 梧梓铺 (police/defense unit) of the Xingjiaoli 兴教里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Wuzi was already settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Shangwuzi 上梧梓, Xiawuzi 下梧梓, Lücuo 芦厝 and Kengwei 坑尾 divided off. There are over 1000 people living in Wuzi village nowadays, and the village is managed by the Wuzi Administrative Village 梧梓 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into three shê altars by jiaoluo (neighborhoods) 角落. These are the Zushê 祖社, Shangshê 上社, and Xiashê 下社. The main livelihood is agriculture and some commerce 2. Surname groups There are quite a few surname groups. The main surname group is the Li. The Li are the offspring of Li Zhigan 李制干. There is no ancestral hall. The Li are of the same ancestry as the Li of Yangwei 洋尾李. On Qingming 清明, the Li go to Yangwei 洋尾 to worship their ancestors 祭祖. The ancestral tombs are still preserved, so there are common rites of ancestral worship at the gravesites. 3. Village temples 1) Wuzijing Chongxingshê 梧梓境重兴社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Liu Jin shenghou 柳金圣侯, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Chongxingshê had originally branched off two other shê altars known as the Shangshê (upper altar) 上社 and Xiashê (lower altar) 下社. These were destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. Currently, the gods of both altars are gathered back in their ancestral altar 祖社 as the branch temples have not yet been refurbished. 2) Canglongtan 苍龙坛 in Wuzijing 梧梓境 contains the Chongxingshê 重兴社. The main god worshipped in the Canglongtan 苍龙坛 is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–1/15 the three shê ritual organizations take turns inviting the incense burners of their temples to xingdao Wuzi three shê ritual alliance 行道 at each household. On 1/16 the entire village takes part in paoxiang 跑香 “racing the incense”. All the gods go on a procession around the entire village. Birthday celebration of the gods A poster in the Canglongtan 苍龙坛 temple provides this list of god’s birthdays and other ritual occasions throughout the year. Most are celebrated with two to three days of opera, and Daoist rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 1/3: welcoming of the gods 接神 2/1: is the birthday of Shêgong 社公 2/2: opening of the year Touya 头芽 2/10: is the birthday of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 2/25: is the birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is the birthday of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 3/3: 3/9: is the birthday of Jin shenghou 金圣侯 4/9: is the birthday of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 5/5: is the birthday of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 5/13: is the birthday of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 5/16: is the birthday of Wang tianjun 王天君 8/1: is the birthday of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 8/20: is the birthday of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 9/23: is the birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 10/7: is the birthday of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 10/11: is the birthday of Liu Jinhou 柳金侯 12/16th: closing of the year banquet 尾牙 12/23rd: Luotian dasheng 罗天大圣 12/23: the farewell of the gods 送神 
A124 Songban shisanjia (Songban thirteen jia ritual alliance) 松阪十三甲 The thirteen jia alliance of Songban is located along the Upper Channel of the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂上圳. This area was part of the Sizhou Songbanpu 泗洲松阪铺 (police/defense unit) of Xingjiaoli 兴教里 (sub-canton). In the Ming, the villages of Sizhou 泗洲 and Putou 埔头 were settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Songban 松阪, Dingcuowei 顶厝尾, Lingqian 岭前 and Qianan 前庵 divided off. In the late Qing and early Republican period, the villages of Daopu 道埔, Siying 泗营, Xiaojia 肖甲, Zhixiang 直巷, Gangtou 巷头, Lingqian 岭前, Baiyuan 白园, Tianluokeng 田螺坑, Butou 埔墩, and Xizheng 西郑 separated off. There are over 3000 people living in the villages of the alliance. Currently these villages are managed by three Administrative Village committees, namely Songdong 松东, Songxi 松西, and Dongpo 东坡行政村. The temple ritual system is divided Songban thirteen jia ritual alliance according to lineage and settlement into thirteen ritual associations (jia 甲). The main livelihoods are agriculture, fruit tree cultivation, off-farm commerce, and working in joint-venture enterprises. The Fushougong 福寿宫 temple, located in Xiaojia 肖甲 village, is the main temple of the thirteen jia alliance. The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Later, the Fushougong 福寿宫 branched off into the Fushoumiao 福寿庙 and the Fushoutan 福寿坛. Each year on lunar 1/17 a common Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the thirteen jia alliance, and the gods of the Fushougong temple are carried in a procession through each of the ritual associations of the alliance. There are many surname groups living in the area. The main surname groups are the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, the Dai 戴, the Zheng 郑, the Ke 柯, the Liu 刘, the Deng 邓, the Yu 俞, and the Qiu 邱. The main surname group in Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 is the Chen 陈. In Daopu 道埔 and Zhixiang 直巷 the Liu 刘 are the main surname group. Over 1000 members of the Xiao 肖 and Ke 柯 surname groups live in Xiaojia 肖甲. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the villages of Putou 埔头, Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 and Xizheng 西郑 were members of the red banner alliance, while Siying village 泗营 was part of the white banner alliance 白旗, and all the other villages were part of the black banner alliance. 
V559 Daopu 道埔 1. Village settlement Daopu village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松溪行政村. There are approximately 1000 people living in Putou village. The main livelihood is agriculture. There are very few other sources of income. The economy is rather weak. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. 3. Village temples 1) Fushougong 福寿宫 contains the Yongshanshê 永善社, and is located in Zhixiang 直巷. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ruigou shenghou 瑞沟圣侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng zhongjun 彭中军, Zhuojiao zhongjun 卓角中军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Yunshansi 云山寺: The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Jialan 伽兰 and Weituo 韦驮. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 villagers participate in the procession of the thirteen-fold village alliance. On 2/1 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On these occasions operas are performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V560 Sizhou 泗洲 1. Village settlement Sizhou village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松溪行政村. Sizhou has a population of 535 people. 2. Surname groups There are surnames of the Wu 吴, the Zhang 张, the Chen 陈, the Yu 俞, the Xu 许, the Zhuang 庄 and the Xu 徐. The Wu 徐 comes from Zhenqian 镇前. 3. Village temples 1) (Sizhou) Qilingong (泗洲) 麒麟宫 contains the Mingshi ershê 明石二社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Wutan liesheng 五坛列圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Dabentang 达本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records twenty-three initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, gods of Qilingong 麒麟宫 are invited to go on a procession within the village, and opera is performed for two days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. On 1/17, attending the procession of Shisanjia 十三甲. On 2/2 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/23: The birthday celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by Sizhou 泗洲 and Ziying 泗营 (called Siyang 泗洋) on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised by Sizhou 泗洲 and Ziying 泗营 (called Siyang 泗洋) on a per capita basis. 
V561 Siying 泗营 1. Village settlement Siying village is a part of the Songxi Administrative Village 松西行政村. Siying has a population about 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are Liu 刘 and Ke 柯. 3. Village temples Fushoudian 绂寿殿: The main gods is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, miscellaneous surnames 杂姓 attend the procession of Sizhou Qilingong 泗洲麒麟宫. On 1/17, the Liu 刘 attends the Yuanxiao procession of Songdong Fushougong 松东福寿宫. On 2/2 a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized. Opera is organized by the Ke 柯 and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V562 Xiaojia 肖甲 1. Village settlement Xiaojia village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. The village population is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The Xiao 肖 is the biggest surname group which has 1000 people. It is divided into four branches: Houmenxiang 后门巷, Zafang 杂房, Xiajingxiang 下井巷, and Lingdouxiang 岭兜巷. Their origins are unknown. There is common worshipping on Winter Solstice. The lineage genealogy and the ancestral hall have all been destroyed. The Ke 柯 has over 300 people and has the same origin as the Ke 柯 in Siying 泗营. 3. Village temples 1) Songbanjing fushoutan 松坂境福寿坛, Yongshanshê 永善社(also known as the Xiaojia shanggong 肖甲上宫 or the Dinggong 顶宫) belongs to the Xiao 肖 surname group. This temple branched from main temple, the Yongxingtang 永兴堂. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Fuxingtan 福兴坛 contains the Yongxingtang 永兴堂 altar and belongs to the Ke 柯. The main god is Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅. Secondary gods include Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府 姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Wanggong yuanshuai 王公元帅, Zhu daye 朱大爷 and Deng erye 邓大爷. 3) Buyundong 步云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ligong yuanshuai 李公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jianlei yushi 监雷御史. The secondary god is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Yongshanshê 永善社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen后土夫人 5) Dongkaici 东开祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zhang zhenren 张真人, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 6) Fulinfu 绂麟府 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. These four temples stand in a row next to the main temple. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 The Xianglu 香炉 of Fuxingtan 福兴坛 is invited by the Ke 柯 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and go on a procession within the territory. On 1/17 the villagers take part in the common procession of the thirteen village alliance. On 1/18, gods of Fushoutan 福寿坛 are invited by the Xiao 肖 to practice the Dao 行道 in every household and go on a procession within the village. In the evening there are stepping on the fire 踏火堆 and palm sedan chairs 棕轿. On 2/2 the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Ke 柯. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masterss are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods For the birthday celebrations of the gods, there are only offerings. No opera is performed for these occasions The main rituals take place in the Fushougong 福寿宫 of Xiaojia 肖甲. 4/9: The birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Xiao 肖. 5/6: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the Xiao 肖. 9/20: The birthday celebration of Huanggong yuanshuai 黄公元帅 is organized by the Ke 柯. On these occasions funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V563 Zhixiang 直巷 1. Village settlement Zhixiang village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village松东行政村. Zhixiang 直巷 has a population over 2000 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Liu 刘 and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples 1) Fushougong 福寿宫 in Songbanjing 松坂境 is also known as the Zhixiang xiagong 直巷下宫, and contains the altar of the Yongshanshê 永善社: It is the main temple of the thirteen-fold jia of Songban 松 阪十三甲. The temple was built in Kangxi 61 (1722). It was rebuilt during the reign of Emperor Qianlong and in Xianfeng 1 (1851). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Ruigou shenghou 瑞沟圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Gaoshan shenghou 高山圣 侯, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shenghou 司马圣侯, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Peng zhongjun 彭中军, Zhuojiao zhongjun 卓角中军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. Songban used to have a Yongxingtang 永兴堂, but it has long been destroyed. Fushougong 福寿宫 branched out from Yongxingtang 永兴堂 and thus has become the main temple of the thirteen-fold village alliance of Songban 松阪十三甲. Later, Fushougong 福寿宫 had two branch temples branched out from it, namely, the Fushoumiao 福寿庙 and the Fushoutan 福寿坛. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 goes to each household to quandeng 圈灯 link lanterns, and to practice the Dao 行道. Opera is performed for three days with funds raised on a per capita basis from within the Songban ritual alliance. On 1/17 the gods of the Fushougong 福寿宫, Fushoutan 福寿坛 and Fushoumiao 福寿庙 go on a procession of inspection around the boundaries of the village, and race across a bonfire. At 2 o’clock in the afternoon, boys from the village draw lots to see who will be allowed to carry the gods across the bonfire. On 2/1, the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Liu 刘. On 2/2 the celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune) is organized by the Ke 柯. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The birthday of Peng zhongjun 彭中军. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5/5: The Duanyang 端阳 festival is celebrated and opera is performed for five days. 5/7: The birthday celebration of the Five Gongchen of Taipingbei 太平陂 五功臣 and Peng zhongjun 彭中军. Funds are raised on a per capita basis from the villages of Xiacuodian 下厝店, Sizhou 泗营, Xiapo 下坡 and Daopo 道坡. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis within the village or by voluntary donations. 10/1: The birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Baiyuan 白园 1. Village settlement Baiyuan includes Tianluokeng 田螺坑 belongs to the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 800 people living in the village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘, making up close to 70% of the population. Other surnames include the Chen 陈 and the Zhu 朱. 3. Village temples 1) Fushoumiao 福寿庙 Yulingong 毓麟宫: The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Zhuojiao jiangjun 卓角将军, Baiya zhongjun 白牙中军, and Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童. 2) Yongshoushê 永寿社, Juyundong 聚云洞 The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 there is a procession of the gods within the thirteen jia 十三甲. On 1/18 all the gods of Yongshoushê 永寿社 go on procession within the village. Birthday celebration of the gods On a day determined by divination, in the fourth lunar month, the birthday celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V565 Xiangtou 巷头 1. Village settlement Xiangtou village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 200 people living in Xiangtou village. 2. Surname groups Surnames include the Liu 刘, the Xiao 肖, the Chen 陈, and the Ke 柯. 3. Village temples Yanshou gong 延寿宫; Yongshanshê 永善社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the shêlu 社炉 is carried in procession to every household within the village to practice the Dao 行道. On 1/17, the villagers participate in the procession of gods throughout the thirteen jia 十三甲 ritual association. Birthday celebrations of the gods 7/7: The birthday celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. 7/23: the birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for two to three days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis and by voluntary donations. 
V566 Lingqian 岭前 1. Village settlement Lingqian village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 500 people living in Lingqian village. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Yongxinggong 永兴宫 is co-owned with Pudun 埔墩 village. The main gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 2) Yongxingshê 永兴社: built in 2003. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Fushougong 福寿宫 is invited to xingdao (practice the Dao) 行道 in every household. On 1/13 all the gods of Yongxinggong 永兴宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 1/15: Birthday celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 4/15: Birthday celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 
V567 Pudun 埔墩 1. Village settlement Pudun village is a part of the Songdong Administrative Village 松东行政村. There are approximately 400 people living in Pudun. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Shangling zushê 上凌祖社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Yonglingdong 永灵洞: The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of Fushougong 福寿宫 is invited to xingdao (practice the Dao) 行道 in every household. On 1/15, all the gods of Yongxinggong 永兴宫 are invited to go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of gods 2/25: The birthday celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 7/23: The birthday celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
V568 Dingcuowei 顶厝尾 1. Village settlement Dingcuowei village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Dingcuowei has a population of over 500 people. The main livelihoods are agriculture but many female workers work in the shoe manufacturing industry. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Chen 陈. Other surnames include the Zheng 郑, Xu 徐, Zhuang 庄, Yao 姚, Cai 蔡 (two households), and Weng 翁(one household). The Chen 陈 came from Dongyang village 东阳 in Chengxiang 城厢. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxinggong 新兴宫: The temple was renovated in 1982. The gods worshipped are: Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣, Li sanfuren 李三夫人. 2) Xinfeng beishê 新丰北社 has an inscription on a pillar dating to Guangxu 14 (1888). Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Zhongyitang 中一堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8, Toutiaoxi 头条戏 is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. On 1/13–14, a procession is held within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/15: A celebration is held for Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 4/13: A celebration is held for Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 7/23: A celebration is held for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 8/19: A celebration is held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed. This is organized by the village as a whole, and funds are collected on a per capita basis. 
V569 Putou 埔头 1. Village settlement Putou village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Putou has approximately 900 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Yao 姚 and the He 何. Other surnames include the Huang 黄, the Chen 陈, the Li 李, and the Weng 翁. The Yao 姚 came from Qinyuan 沁园 in Hanjiang 涵江. The He 何 came from Shandou 山兜 of Jiufeng 九峰 in Wutang 梧塘. The Li 李 came from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Weng 翁 came from Dongpo 东坡 in Wutang 梧塘. 3. Village temples 1) Xinfeng nanshê 新丰南社: Upper altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝; Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Jungong dianshuai 郡公殿帅; Right altar: Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Yuyunsi 寓云寺: Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天, Jialan pusa 伽蓝菩萨. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–8, the gods go on procession within the village. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. On 2/2, Toufu 头福 is celebrated, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 3/11: The celebration for Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 4/13: Is the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 birthday. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5/11: The celebration for Jungong dianshuai 郡公殿帅. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis, at a rate of 2 to 3 RMB/person. Xizheng 西郑 1. Village settlement Xizheng village is a part of the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. The village of Xizheng has over 100 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zheng 郑. During the early years of the Republican period, Xizheng village was devastated by the Nanbei Army 南北军. 3. Village temples 1) Jifu dongshê 集福东社: Middle altar: Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Ciji zhenjun 慈济 真君 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wuhu jialuo 五虎伽罗. 2) Judetang 聚德堂: Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14, processions are held within the village. On 1/14, the incense burners of the temple, the shêlu 社炉, are taken to “practice the Dao 行道” in every household. On 1/17, the villagers take part in a procession of the gods through the thirteen jia 十三甲. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/15: Is the birthday of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫 人 birthday. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
A125 Jiufeng qijia (Jiufeng seven jia ritual alliance) 九峰七甲 The Jiufeng sevenfold ritual alliance is located along the Nangshan mountain 囊山. This area relies on the water of Jiufeng sanba dams along mountain streams 九峰三坝. The alliance includes Lianhe village 联合村, Dinggou 顶沟, Shipaidou 石牌兜, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. It was originally part of the Yishan Dongpu (police/defense unit) 依山东铺 of Yanshouli (sub-canton) 延寿里. Anninggong 安宁宫 in Jiufeng 九峰 village is the main temple for the seven village ritual alliance. Currently, Jiufeng is managed by the Jiufeng Administrative Village 九峰行政村. The temple ritual system is divided into seven jia ritual associations based primarily on settlement. 
V571 Lianhecun 联合村 1. Village settlement Lianhe (united village) includes Niushan 牛山, Caopu 草埔, Gongbian 宫边, and Jiucuofang 旧厝房. There are approximately 900 people living in these settlements. The main livelihoods are agriculture and fruit tree cultivation 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Zhuang 庄. Other surnames include the Zhang 张 and the Xie 谢. In addition, there are eight 
A125 Jiufeng seven jia ritual alliance main surname groups including the Pang 庞, Huang 黄, Long 龙, Nian 廿, and Fang 方. Each surname group has a similar number of people. The Pang 庞 came from Huian 惠安, and the Huang 黄 came from Huangxia 黄霞 in Hanjiang 涵江, while the origins of the other surname groups are unknown. There are no lineage genealogies and no ancestral halls. There is no common worship on Qingming 清明 festival or on Winter Solstice 冬至. 3. Village temples 1) Jiufengjing Anninggong 九峰境安宁宫 contains the altar of the Xinxingshê 新兴社. The temple was rebuilt in Daoguang 18 (1838). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Jinzhongjun 金中军. 2) Juyingting 聚英亭: The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Secondary gods: Weituo 韦陀, Jialan 迦蓝. 3) Fulintang 福霖堂: The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4) Zhengben shuyuan 正本书院 is dedicated to the Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 209 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–14, Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jin zhongjun 金中军 go on procession within the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis from Caopu 草埔 and Gongbian 宫边. On 1/15, the gods of Anninggong 安宁宫 are returned to the temple. A fire walking ceremony is held and palm sedan chairs are raced over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The birthday of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Opera is performed for three days, with five performances in all. Funds are raised on a per capita basis or by voluntary donations. However, half of the people do not want to donate. 2/19, 6/19, 10/19: All of these dates are Guanyin dashi’s 观音大士 feast days. Opera is usually performed for two days. Contributions are collected on a per household basis from Jiufeng 九峰, Gongbian 宫边 and Jiucuofang 旧厝房, or by voluntary donations. 7/23: The birthday of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Opera is performed for one or two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis throughout the sevenfold ritual alliance, or by voluntary donations. 
V572 Dinggou 顶沟 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Dinggou village. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Liu 刘. Other surname groups include the Lin 林 and the Deng 邓. 3. Village temples Dexingmiao 德兴庙: The main gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qiye 七爷. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chair are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. On 2/2, there is a celebration of Toufu 头福 (beginning good fortune). This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/9: A celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Opera is performed for one or two days. This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 8/15: A celebration of Qiye’s 七爷 birthday. Opera is performed for two days. This is organized by the village itself, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual organization The title of Fushou 福首 is rotated among those who are over 50 years old. 
V573 Shipaidou 石牌兜 1. Village settlement There are approximately 400 people living in Shipaidou. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Jiang 江 and the Yan 颜. 3. Village temples 1) Xingyundian 兴云殿: The main god is Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 2) Jiulianyan 九莲岩: The main god is Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. Secondary gods include the Baxian 八仙. 4. Ritual: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chairs are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 5/18: Birthday celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement There are over 400 people living in Tianzhongyang. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Huang 黄. 3. Village temples 1) Qiyemiao 七爷庙: The main god is Qiye 七爷. 2) Qinglinggong 青麟宫: Main god: Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods: Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Xingshanci 兴山祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 231 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–15, villagers participate in the procession of the sevenfold ritual alliance. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. Birthday celebration of the gods 8/15: There are birthday celebrations held for Qiye 七爷. Fire walking ceremonies are held and palm sedan chair are carried over bonfires. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct a jiao ritual. 
A126 Lipu qijing (Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance) 励浦七境 The Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance 励浦七境 is located within the Taiping weir 太平陂 irrigation system. The alliance includes the nine villages of Matou 码头, Dubin 都邠, Xiujiao 秀郊, Chengfeng 澄峰, Qiandongpo 前东坡, Houdongpo 后东坡, and Nankeng 南坑 (Jiangkeng 蒋坑). This region originally belonged to the Yishan xipu 依山西舖 (police/defense unit) of Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里. In the Ming, Banrou 阪头 village was settled. During the Qing, the villages of Dubian 度边, Shudou 树兜, Dubin 都邠, Qianlin 前林, Jiangkeng 蒋坑, Qiandongpu 前东埔 and Houdongpu divided off. This area now is managed by the Matou 码头, Doubin 都邠, Dongpo 东坡 and Hangxia 黄霞 Administrative Villages. In the temple ritual system, Lipu qijing is divided into seven ritual territories according to the distribution of shê temples. The Beijidian 北极殿 of Matou village 码头村 is the main overall temple of the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. Each year of the dragon Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 goes on a procession through the seven fold ritual alliance. The founding shê-altar temple of the Lipu ritual alliance 励浦祖社 was originally in Xiujiao village 秀郊村 but it burned down in 1918. Nine separate Lipushê 励浦社 were built, one in each village, and the original god statues of the founding altar were also distributed to the various shê temples. In recent years, a new Lipu zushê 励浦祖社 has been reconstructed on the site of the original founding shê temple, and it is managed by representatives of each village temple in the alliance. Each year on 3/23 the birthday 
A126 Lipu sevenfold ritual alliance of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is celebrated there, and on 4/13 there is a celebration held for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土 夫人诞辰. On 4/26 a celebration is held for Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and on 8/1 a celebration of Fazhu shengfei 法主圣妃 is held. On each occasions, opera is performed for two or three days. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 29 (1849) entitled 鼎建北极殿双圣寝庙赖忠烈田元帅, 袁大人降乩劝缘碑 (Stele on the construction of the Double Deity temple of the Northern Pole Temple due to the raising of funds instigated by the spirit medium writings of the Loyal and Ardent Commander in Chief Tian and Great Lord Yuan) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:315, No. 279). In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the Lipu Qijing were all white banner alliance. 
V575 Matou 码头 1. Village settlement Matou was originally called Bantou 阪头 or Qianlin 前林 and belonged to Matou Administrative Village 码头行政村. The village of Matou has a total population of over 1200 people, living in over 200 households. The village is divided into Qianzhi 前至 and Houzhi 后至 neighborhoods. The main livelihood is farming, with pickled vegetables as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname of Qianzhi 前至 is the Qiu 邱, and there are also the Chen 陈 and the Xiao 萧. The main surname of Houzhi 后至 is the Hou 侯, but there are also minor surnames including the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Liu 刘, the Xiao 萧, and the Ke 柯. The founding ancestor of the Qiu, Master Jizong 继宗公 was a descendant of the Qiu of Jinjiang Shihi 晋江石狮. 3. Village temples 1) Qianlinjing Beijidian 前林境北极殿 is divided into a front and a back hall, and is the main overall temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. In the front hall a beam is inscribed with the date of renovation in Qing Jiaqing 23 (1818). Three stelae survive in the temple, one from Qing Jiaqing 21 (1816), one from Qing Daoguang 29 (1849), and the third from 1981. The front hall central altar is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, and Dikui 地魁. The left altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, the right altar: Lingguan dadi 右座神帐: 灵官大帝. On the left side is Baiya dajiang 白牙大将. In the left hand hall, called the Ganyingci 感应祠, are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 and some spirit tablets. In the back hall, called the Shuangshengdian 双圣殿, the central altar is dedicated to Shengfu 圣父 and Shengmu 圣母. The left altar: Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥 妙将, the right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. The back left hand hall is called the Peiyuan shuyuan 培元书院, and the central altar is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. The right hand hall is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝 and Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 2) Minantang 民安堂 (also called the Minan shuyuan 民安书院) is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left is Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, and on the right Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. On the far left side is Hufa longtian 护法龙天, and on the far right Zhida Chen 智达陈先生 and Puyao Liang 普耀梁先生, two late Qing leaders of the Three in One religious movement. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records forty-four initiates. 3) Qianlin Guotaisi 前林国泰寺 belongs to Houzhi 后至. The temple is dedicated to Yuantian shangdi Xuantian shangdi 元天上帝(玄天上帝). 4) Mingshengtang 明圣堂 is divided into three halls and belongs to Qianzhi 前至. The main hall’s (facing south) central altar is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. To the left is Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人 and to the right Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. In the back hall the central altar is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Xiaosheng xianshi 萧圣先师, right altar: Xietian dadi 协天大帝, The lower altar (facing north) central altar is dedicated to Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. The left altar is that of Lipushê 励浦社 and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Daye大爷. The right hand altar is for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records forty-five initiates. 5) Qianlinjing Lipushê 前林境励浦社 contains the Xianyingtan 显应坛, and belongs to Qianzhi 前至. The temple was restored in Qing Jiaqing 12 (1807). The central altar is dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, the left altar to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Chifeng Xiao zongguan 敕 封萧总管. The right altar is dedicated to Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Lingtong Zhangsheren 灵通张舍人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 6) Qianlijing Fengyangdian 前林境凤阳殿 belongs to Houzhi 后至 and was restored in 1985年. The temple is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 (called Shenggong 圣公, and to the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, villagers go first to the Lipugong (shê altar) 励浦宫(社) to ask for incense fire 请香火, and then go to the Beijidian 北极殿 to again ask for incense fire, and then return to the Xianyingtan 显进坛 to invite Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 to go on a procession to xingnuo “exorcise the demons” 出巡行傩. On 2/2 the fengjin 奉金 (reverencing with gold) ritual is held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 4/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. 8/22: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by Houzhi 后至. 11/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by Qianzhi 前至. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed each year on 10/15 or 10/16. Five Three in One Scripture masters are invited from the Tiezao 铁灶 Daotang (Assembly of the Way) to conduct the pudu rites for a day. If there are individuals desiring to repay a vow to the gods they can sponsor a performance of marionette plays at this time. The birthday of gods in Xianyingtan 显进坛 are as follows 1/12 Lintong Zhangsheren 灵通张舍人 1/13 Chifeng Xiaozongguan 敕封萧总管 2/25 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 3/9 Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯 3/13 Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将 4/9 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 6/10 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 7/22 Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘 7/23 Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 8/1 Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. 5. Ritual Groups The Three in One temples in the village are quite active, and maintain a busy annual schedule of rituals, in addition to daily and monthly rites. There is no Tanban altar association or hereditary spirit medium tradition. In recent years, however, ardent young men of the village have gathered to chant invocations of the gods in the temple, and whoever is able to become possessed becomes the spirit medium. 
V576 Dubin 都邠 1. Village settlement Dubin village was originally called Dubian 度边 or Lubian 路边 and belonged to Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The village has approximately 2500 people. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in Dubin village are the Li 李, the Bao 鲍 and the Guo 郭. There are also families of the Zeng 曾, the He 何, the Huang 黄, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Wang 王, and the Wu 吴 surnames. The Li are the Baitang Li 白塘李. It is claimed that their ancestors first moved from Yangwei in Hanjiang 涵江洋尾 to Anxi 安溪, and then later returned to Duotou in Hanjiang 涵江哆头, finally moving to Dubin village from Duoqian 哆前. Up to this time, they have been in the village for sixteen generations. The Li have divided into three branches, and have a total of 160 households in the village. The Bao 鲍 came from Ningbo in Zhejiang 浙江宁波 via Yongchun (Sanyang) 永春三洋. One of their ancestors fled troubles and moved to Dubin village, where he had four children. One had no progeny, but the others founded three branches, which have now reached their eighteenth generation. Originally there was a lineage genealogy. The Guo have divided into the Shangguo 上郭 and the Xiaguo 下郭. The Shangguo moved to the village from Minnan 闽南 and have about twenty households. The Xiaguo moved from Meiyang village in Qiulu 荻芦 梅阳村 and now have over 100 households in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Dubinjing Lipushê 都邠境励浦社 houses the Xianyingtan 显圣坛. The central altar is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The left altar is for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. The right altar is for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, and Qixing niangniang 七星娘娘. 2) Sanshenggong 三圣宫 was originally two temples in front with another hall behind. In 1984 it was rebuilt as a row of three temples. In the central hall of the Xianshenggong 显圣宫, on the central altar, is Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. On the left is Lanfu daren 蓝府大人, on the right is Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. The left temple is called the Yangshengci 仰圣祠 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Shuizhu xianshi 水珠 仙师 and Liu xianshi 刘仙师. On the left altar are Pufa tianzun 普法天尊 and Wen taishi 文太师, on the right altar is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. The right hand temple is the Fengshengdian 凤圣殿, which is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, locally called Shenggong 圣公. On the left altar is Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and on the right altar, Guma 姑妈. 3) Xianyingmiao beijidian 显应庙, 北极殿 is divided into front and back halls. The temple was restored in 1992. The front hall is called the Xianyingmiao 显应庙 and is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. To the left is Guan Ping 关平, and to the right Zhou Cang 周仓. Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 are worshipped in the front of the temple. The back hall is called the Beijidian 北极殿 and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. On the left is Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and on the right, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 4) Qingyuntang 青元堂 is dedicated to Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. On the left is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, on the right Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 5) Yangshengci 仰圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. On the left is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 with Qianliyan 千里眼 and Xunfenger 顺风耳, on the right is Tiangong yuanshua 田公元帅 with Daye 大爷 further off to the side. 6) Chunyangtang 纯阳堂 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 7) Fuqingsi 福庆寺 is dedicated to Shijia mounifo 释迦牟尼佛. To the left is Weituo 韦陀, and to the right Jialan 迦蓝. The eastern half of the temple is the Dijunmiao 帝君庙 and is dedicated to Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师. The west side is another temple, the Miaoyingtang 妙应堂, dedicated to Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Weituo 韦驮. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, incense fire is requested from the incense burner of Miaoyin zushi 妙应祖师 in the Fuqingsi Miaoyingtang 福庆寺妙应堂. The incense is taken back to the Xianshengtan 显圣坛, where all the gods of the nearby temples are summoned, and the procession prepares itself. On 1/13, in the evening, they again go the Beijidian 北极殿 of Xianyingmiao 显应庙 to invoke all the gods again. Then they use five palm sedan chairs as seats for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 (in his martial aspect 武身), Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Li sanfuren 李三夫人 who are all taken in a procession to each household. On 1/14 Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师 is escorted back to his temple, and all the gods return to the shê temple. On 1/15, in the night, candles of happiness 喜烛 are lit in the temple (and taken to each household). On 1/15–16, Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮 and opera is performed for two days. On 1/17, all the gods are escorted back to their own temples. Each year ten Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to manage the rituals. From 1/12 onwards, they prepare a vegetarian feast and offerings and place them in a great display before the shê temple. This is called the Liyan 里宴 or “rustic banquet”. Finally, all the boys under the age of fifteen in the village are invited to a feast. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7–8: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 1/15–16: The celebration of the Wenwu zhushen (all the gods) 文武诸神. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5/13: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and Earth 天地. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7/27: The celebration of Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师. 8/15: The celebration of Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Formerly there was a spirit medium possessed by Qitian dasheng, but at present there are no spirit mediums at the temple. 
V577 Xiujiao 秀郊 1. Village settlement Xiujiao was originally known as Shudou 树兜 and belonged to the Dubin Administrative Village 都邠行政村. The entire village has a total of 120 households and more than 700 people. The main livelihood is agriculture, with some handicrafts as a supplement. 2. Surname groups The main surname group in the village is the Wu 吴, with approximately 110 households. Other surnames include the Jiang 江, with seven households, and the Tang 唐, with three households. The Wu moved to the village from Xizhu 西洙 village near Putian 莆田, and have lived in the village for eleven generations. There used to be a Wu ancestral hall 吴氏祠堂, but it no longer exists. 3. Village temples 1) Xiujiaojing Lipushê 秀郊境励浦社 contains the Fuxingtan 福兴坛. The temple was rebuilt in Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810) and was repaired in 1981. A stele is preserved in the temple entitled Chongjian Fuxingtan beiji 重建福 兴坛碑记 (Stele record of the reconstruction of the Fuxingtan), dated Qing Jiaqing 15 (1810). The main gods are Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On the left are Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and on the right Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝 is in a miniature Beijidian 北极殿 temple in a niche above the altar. On the left is a mural of the Lipushê 励浦社 featuring Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Zhangong shengjun 张公 圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are invited to go on a procession around the entire village. Opera is performed for two days. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation to take charge of the rituals. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/5: The celebration of Yuhuang shangdi 玉皇上帝. Representatives are sent to the Lingyundian on Hugong mountain 壶山凌云殿 to ask for the incense of Yuhuang shangdi. Opera is performed for two days. 1/16: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Marionette plays are performed. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/23: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 11/15: The Xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are performed 下元 普度 and marionette plays are sponsored. Each year opera is performed three times, each time for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The village originally had spirit mediums who were possessed by Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Currently, Fuxingtang has two older and several younger mediums, a number of whom are possessed by Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 each Yuanxiao festival to perform exorcistic dances 行傩. There is also a Three in One temple called the Yangbentang 养本堂. The SJCDCB, 1992 records forty-two initiates. There is also a Buddhist nunnery called the Xiangmingan 香明庵 in the village. 4/13: 
V578 Chengfeng 澄峰 1. Village settlement Chengfeng belongs to the Huangxia Administrative Village 黄霞行政村. The total village population is over 700 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Yao 姚. They moved to the village from Qinyuan 沁园 over four or five hundred years ago. Currently they are divided into four lineage branches. On 9/9 there is a collective worship of the lineage at the tombs of the ancestors. At Qingming 清明 and Dongzhi 冬至 each family cleans the graves of its immediate ancestors. 3. Village temples 1) Chengfengjing Lipushê 澄峰境励浦社: the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wufu dashen 乌府大神, Zhushi sanniang 朱氏三娘, and Ershiye 二使爷. 2) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. The other gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhang Sanfeng 张三丰, and Zhuo zhenren 卓真人. 3) Lingfengting 凌峰亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Other gods are Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Weituo zuntian 韦陀尊天. 4) Fengxingan 凤兴庵 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 5) Qiyundian 齐云殿 is dedicated to Songgong yuanshuai 宋公元帅. Other gods are Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Zhu qiboye 朱七伯爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10 Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is taken to each home to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19 the gods of Lipushê 励浦社 are invited to go on a tour of inspection procession through the entire village. The roadways are sealed against demons, and people pray for good fortune. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration for Wufu daren 乌府大人. 5/22: The celebration for Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人. 7/16: The celebration for Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9/1: The celebration for Ershiye 二使爷. 10/17: The celebration for Songgong yuanshuai 宋公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups Each year by rotation based on age nine Fushou 福首 are selected to be in charge of the rituals. Two of them, who must be over 60 years of age, are called the senior Fushou, while the seven others are called the new Fushou. 
V579 Dongpo 东坡 1. Village settlement Dongpo was originally called Dongpu 东埔 and belonged to the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. This village was established in the Ming dynasty, and is now divided into two parts, Qiandongpo 前东坡 and Houdongpo 后东坡, with a total population of approximately 5000 people. Qiandongpo 前东坡 has over 3000 people, and Houdongpo 后东坡 has over 1000. The main livelihood is farming, supplement by fruit trees, women working in shoe factories, and villagers from Qiandongpo working in the large Xuejin 雪津 beer factory. 2. Surname groups The entire village of Qiandongpo 前东坡 is surnamed Weng 翁. In Houdongpo 后东坡 the Weng are the main surname group with the Chen 陈 having only one household, and the Lin 林 eight or nine households. The Dongpo Weng lineage claims to have come from Qingjiang 清江 in Huangshi 黄石 or from Beigao 北高. A genealogy of the Jingzhao Weng of Puyang 莆阳京兆翁氏族谱 has been preserved. Two stelae are preserved in the Weng Ancestral hall. These are the Qianlong 5 (1740) 衍庆祠 田园地租碑记 (Stele recording the land rent from the fields and orchards of the Shrine of Expanding Good Tidings) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:229, No. 199) and the Qianlong 36 ( 1771) 翁氏宗祠碑记 (Stele on the Weng Lineage Ancestral Hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:250, No. 215). 3. Village temples 1) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Li duyuanshuai 李都元帅, Heihu dashen 黑虎 大神, Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王, Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, Liujin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. At the sides of the door are altars dedicated to Liujin shenghou 柳金圣侯, Hougong shenghou 侯公圣侯. 2) Yizunshê 义尊社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shunlingong 顺麟宫 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Left altar: Sanwei furen 三位夫人. Right altar: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4) Dongxingtang 东兴堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Left: Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. Right: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Left: Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人. Right: Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 6) Xingyundian 兴云殿 was rebuilt in 1984, and is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Left: Liu zhongjun 刘中军. Right: You zhongjun 游中军. 7) Qingyuanmiao 青源庙 is dedicated to Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. Left: Jin daren 金大人. Right: Jiu daye 九大爷. 8) Yuyun Buddhist temple 寓云寺 was built in the Ming (PTZJZCG, 1992:215) 9) Liben shuyuan 立本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 239 initiates. 10) Cunxintang 存心堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:34 records 222 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Qiandongpo 前东坡 goes on procession. On 1/12, Houdongpo 后东坡 goes on procession. On both these days, the gods are taken across a bonfire 踏火 and a procession of linked lanterns is held 圈灯. A single Daoist ritual master 道士 is invited to conduct rites. Four palm sedan chairs are prepared for the martial version of Qitian dasheng 武齐天大圣, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Huangdu yuanshuai 黄都元帅, and Lidu yuanshuai 李都元帅. Four Fushou 福首 from each area organize the ritual activities. Opera is performed each day. On 2/2, a sedan chair is carried out to collect cash contributions. A large sedan chair is prepared for Wugong dutong 吴公都统 and four small sedan chairs and prepared for the (civil version) of Qitian dasheng 文齐天大圣, the martial version of Qitian dasheng 武齐天大圣, Li duyuanshuai 李都元帅, Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅, and another procession is held. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebration of the gods 2/10: The celebration for Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. 3/23: The celebration for Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2/25: The celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 5/5: The celebration for Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 7/7: The celebration for Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 9/9: The celebration for Wugong dutong 吴公都统. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These celebrations are organized by the entire village as a whole, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. 
V580 Nankeng 南坑 1. Village settlement Nankeng was originally called Jiangkeng 蒋坑. Nankeng village belongs to the Dongpo Administrative Village 东坡行政村. There are currently 360 people living in the village. Nankeng was originally part of the Lipu xishê 励浦西社 of Jiangkengjing 蒋坑境 of Yanshouli (subcanton) 延寿里 of Tanganxiang (township) 唐安乡 of Putianxian (county) 莆田县 of Xinghua Prefecture 兴化府. The main livelihood is agriculture. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village, including the Li 李, the Huang 黄, the Qiu 邱, the Weng 翁, the Wu 吴, the Lin 林, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Li 李 came from Duotou 哆头. The Qiu 邱 came from Matou 码头 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Huang 黄 came from Huangxia 黄霞 of Hanjiang. The Wu 吴 came from Houhuang 后黄 of Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Kuijugong 奎聚宫 was rebuilt in 1982. The main gods are Xingzai baoyu dawang 行灾保御大王, Beidou Zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, and Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘. 2) Lipu xishê 励浦西社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Note: It is said that during the early Republican period, Lipushê 励浦社 was burnt down by the Nanbei Army 南北军, and dispersed to the surrounding villages. 3) 天宪庙 Xianxianiao is dedicated to 李大人, also known as the Xingzai Baoyu dawang 行灾保御大王. The secondary gods are the four dajiang Liu 刘, Zhang 张, Zhao 赵 and Su 苏. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao Rituals On 1/10 the villagers carry the incense burners from the shê temple to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/ 11 there is a procession through the village. A single Daoist master is invited to conduct rites. Three palm sedan chairs are prepared for Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使 and Lushi erniang 卢氏二娘. The village elders carry the statues of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and a Tongzi 童子. There were formerly two Fushou 福首, one old and one new, but currently there are four, with one old and three new, to organize the rituals. Birthday celebration of the gods 4/13: Birthday celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 6/10: Birthday celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. 7/21: Birthday celebration of Li daren 李大人 also known as Baoyu dawang 保御大王. 8/1: Birthday celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. The celebration is organized by the entire village all together, and contributions are collected on a per capita basis. Every year, opera is performed four times in the village, each time for lasting for two days. 4 yuan is collected per person each time. 
A127 Huangan qijing (Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance) 黄安七境 The Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance is located within the Taiping Weir irrigation system 太平陂灌溉系统 just northeast of Hanjiang 涵江 city. This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) and the Yishan xipu 依山西铺 of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Xialing 下陵 and Huangxiang 黄巷 were already settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Huangan 黄安, Xiazhuang 下张, Qianlin 前林, Qianhuang 前黄, Cangkou 仓口 and Qianpu 前埔 separated off. These villages are managed by two Administrative Villages: Huangxia 黄霞 and Canglin 苍林行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units, within the seven villages of Huangan 黄安, Xiaxiao 霞霄, Huangxiang 黄巷, Xialin 下林, Cangkou 苍口, Xilin 西林, and Xipo 西坡. Originally there was a founding she-altar in the village of Huangan 黄安, with Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 as the main gods. Because the village was torn down and its lands were converted into an industrial park, the temple no longer exists. Therefore, each village has since built their own independent shê temple. Collective rituals and processions for the entire sevenfold alliance have not been revived. Historically, the Huang lineage of Huanggang 黄巷黄氏 were a prominent local lineage with many examination graduates. In the Ming Zhengtong period (1436–49) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in Qianhuang 前黄 village. In Ming Hongzhi 8 (1495), a Guoying 国英牌坊 memorial archway was set up in Huanggang 黄巷 village in honor of the Huang lineage. 
V581 Xiaxiao 霞宵 1. Village settlement Xiaxiao village includes Huangan 黄安 and belongs to the Huangxia administrative village 黄霞行政村. The current population is approximately 1000 people. 
A127 Huangan sevenfold ritual alliance 2. Surname groups Surname groups in the village include the Lin 林, the Xu 许, the Liu 刘, the Wu 吴, the Zhang 张, and the Chen 陈. The Lin are the dominant surname group, and claim to be descendants of the Jiumu Lin 九牧林. They state that in the Tang dynasty they moved to the village from Wushi 乌石 in Xitianwei 西天尾. 3. Village temples 1) Xiaxiaojing Huanganshê 霞宵境黄安社 contains the Yongningshê 永宁社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Wanyundain 万云殿 is dedicated to Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁. 3) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4) Kaiyuanmiao 开元庙: Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Yingdetang 英德堂 is dedicated to Huangying mama 黄英妈妈. Other gods are Ma jiangjun 马将军 and Huanger jiangjun 黄二将军. 6) Hualitang 化里堂 is dedicated to Qiangong yuanshuai 千公元帅. 7) Qingguangtang 清光堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 8) Guangyuantang 光源堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 9) Dexingting 德兴亭 is also dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10) Shunqingtang 顺庆堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fourteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9, each of the nine ancestral houses of the entire village invites the gods to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Meiling 梅岭 of Wutang 梧塘 to conduct a jiao ritual 建醮. On 1/16, Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 are carried in sedan chairs on a tour of inspection procession around the entire village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huanganshê 黄安社 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration for Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Beijidian 北极殿. 4/9: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Kaiyuanmiao 开元庙. 6/6: The celebration for Fude zhengsheng 福德正神 is organized by the Qingguangtang 清光堂. 8/23: The celebration for Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Hualitang 化里堂. 9/17: The celebration for the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongningshê 永宁社 is organized by the village as a whole. 10/25: The celebration for Guanglie qiansui 光烈千岁 is organized by the village as a whole. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and rituals are held. 
V582 Huangxiang 黄巷 1. Village settlement The village of Huangxiang is also known as Huanggang 黄冈. The village belongs to the Huangxia Administrative Village 黄 霞行政村. The current population is approximately 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Shang 上 and Xia Huanggang 下黄冈. 2. Surname groups Huangxiang is a single surname village of the Huang 黄 lineage. The village has a history of over 1000 year, when the Huang ancestors moved from Henan 河南. The Huang Great Lineage hall 黄氏大 祠堂 worships Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师, the Tang monk who was a member of the lineage. The ancestral hall is a cultural relic of the Hanjiang 涵江 municipality. The tomb of Huang’an 黄岸墓 and the old home of Huang Pu 黄璞故居 have been preserved. Each year on 1/8 members of the Huang lineage from all over the area and from neighboring counties come to worship their ancestors. Opera is performed from 1/6–1/8. There are several stelae and rubbings of stone inscriptions about the Huang Ancestral hall preserved in the hall, including a rubbing of the Qingyuan 2 (1196) inscription by Zhu Xi 朱熹 entitled 唐桂州刺史封开国公谥忠义黄公祠记 (Record of the Ancestral hall of his Honor Huang, posthumously entitled the Loyal and Righteous Governor of Guizhou in the Tang, enfeoffed as the Duke who founded the Nation) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:30, No. 29) and a stele composed in Jiajing 4 (1525) entitled 谕祭大理寺少卿黄巩碑 (Inscription on the Imperially ordered sacrifices to Huang Gong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:152, No. 129). Other texts of inscriptions relating to this hall include that composed by Lin Jun 林俊 in Zhengde 10 (1515) entitled 黄巷黄氏祠 堂记 (Record of Huangxiang Huang Ancestral hall) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:140, No. 119), and another composed in Guangxu 11 (1885) by Huang Zhongzan 黄中瓒 entitled 重修黄巷祠墓碑记 (Stele recording the repairs to the Huangxiang shrine ancestral tombs) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:343, No. 306). 3. Village temples 1) Huanggangjing Taipingshê 黄冈境太平社 is the ancestral shê altar of the Huang lineage. The temple was burned down in 1918 during armed conflict and was rebuilt in 1946. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. The secondary gods are Ciji zhenjin 慈济真君, Shitong dutong 石潼都统, Lingtong sheren 灵通 舍人, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯. 2) Wenwudian 文武殿 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3) Guohuansi Buddhist temple 国欢寺 was originally the home of two brothers, Huang Niepan 涅磐 and Huang Benji 本寂, in the Tang dynasty. Their parents were buried to the east of home in the 五大夫黄公墓. The brothers moved into the Yanyang temple 延杨寺 and the local government gave the temple the name Guohuan Chanyuan 国欢禅院. In Ming Wanli 1612, the Buddhist monk Ruren 如忍 rebuilt the Great Hall, and bequeathed a Buddhist Tripitaka. In Yongli 4 (1650), the abbot Chaoyuan 超元 went to Japan and became the founder of the Pangui Chan Buddhist order 盘珪禅派. This temple was rebult several times, in 1669 by Buddist monk Chaomin 超旻, and in 1946 and again in 1989. The stone inscriptions about this temple include a text from the Yongle period (1403–1424) composed by Lin Huan 林环 entitled 重建国欢禅寺记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Guoquan Chan Monastery) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:90, No. 82). Extent stelae include the Wanli 38 (1610) 莆阳莲山国欢禅院重兴佛殿新造 藏经记 (Record of the reconstruction of the Buddha Hall and the new building of the Buddhist Suttra Hall of the Gouhuan Chongfu Chan Monastery at Lianshan in Puyang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:197, No. 173) and the Jiaqing 20 (1815) 重修国欢古伽蓝并三门功德碑 (Stele recording the merit accrued from the restoration of the Guohuan Ancient Jialan Monastery and three Gateways) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:292, No. 254). 4) Licheng shuyuan 立诚书院 is also known as Shangsheng temple 上生寺. The stone inscription composed by Zheng Yue 郑岳 in Zhengde 15 (1520) entitled 立诚书院记 (Record of the Establishment of Sincerity Academy) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:146, No. 124). The temple includes a shrine to Huang Gong which is commemorated in the inscription composed in Jiajing 23 by Lin Dalu 林大辂 entitled 黄巩祠祀田记 (Record of the purchase of land to support the sacrifices at the shrine dedicated to Huang Gong) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:168, No. 146). 5) Wuyuan shuyuan 悟原书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 132 initiates. 6) Hongbentang 宏本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records ten initiates. 7) Zongdetang 宗德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records thirty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, Shanghuanggang 上黄冈 invites Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯 to each of its households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to go on a tour of inspection procession of the boundaries of their territory. On 1/12, Xiahuanggang 下黄冈 invites Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯 to each of its household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to go on a tour of inspection procession of the boundaries of their territory. On 1/15, the entire village celebrates Yuanxiao, and each household goes to the ancestral hall to light lanterns and candles. Miaoying zushi 妙应祖师 is taken on a procession around the village, and the roadways are sealed from demonic influences. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天 大圣. Opera is performed for eight days. 5/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Opera is performed for two days. 9/4: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Opera is performed for two days. 10/19: The celebration of Liu shenghou 柳圣侯 and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. Opera is performed for two days. 
V583 Xialin 下林 1. Village settlement Xialin village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. Xialin village has a population of over 600 people living in approximately 150 households. The village is small and land is scarce. All around factories have taken most of the land. The main livelihood now is leaving the village to go work in factories, and farming is only a supplement. A minority work on firing porcelain tiles. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Zeng 曾. There are also many other surnames including the Zhang 张, the He 何, the Cai 蔡, the Chen 陈, the Cui 崔, the Lin 林, the Yao 姚, the Liu 刘, the Zhuang 庄, the Fang 方, the Huang 黄 and the Zheng 郑. The Zeng have divided into two branches, known as the Dazeng 大曾 and the Xiaozeng 小曾. The Dazeng come from Jikui 集奎 in Hanjiang 涵江, the Xiaozeng come from Xialin 下林 near Putian city. 3. Village temples 1) Xialinjing Yongxingshê 霞林境永兴社 branched off from the ancient Huangan 黄安 shê altar, but was demolished in 1958 and only recently has been rebuilt on its original foundations. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Left altar: Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Right altar: Lubu daren 鲁部大人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑. 2) Xialing Longfenggong 霞陵龙峰宫 was restored in 1988. The main altar: Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Right altar: Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. On the front altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 or 1/10, divination blocks are cast to invite Jin daren 金大人 to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Two palm sedan chairs are prepared for Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Dutong yuanshuai 都统元帅 or Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 to go on procession within the village. At night a procession of lanterns traces the boundaries of the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to recite scriptures and hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Each year, four Fushou 福首 rotate into positions of responsibility. Two of them hold the old incense burners, and two hold the new ones. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/3: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. 2/10: The celebration of Chenshi furen 陈氏真人. 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3/2: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4/13: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣. 4/23: The celebration of Shui shengwang 水圣王. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Huban dashen 虎班大神. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗 星君. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/26: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 10/1: The celebration of Jin daren 金大人. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. On five of these occasions opera is performed for two days, and the other gods are invited to watch the plays. Funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xialin village had a tanban 坛班 altar association in the past, but in recent years it has not been revived, and no guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has taken place. There is a Three in One hall called the Fudetang 复德堂 dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 
V584 Cangkou 苍口 1. Village settlement Cangkou village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. There are approximately 400 households today in Cangkou village, which has a population of approximately 2000 people. The main livelihood of the village is agriculture. Vegetable gardening is the main sideline. Other sources of income include working in construction. Very few are in trades. 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Xu 许. Other surnames include the Yao 姚, the Guo 郭, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Gong 龚 (one household). 3. Village temples 1) Qilin zonggong 麒麟宗宫 is the main overall temple for the three villages of Cangkou 苍口, Xipo 西坡, Xilin 西林. The temple has four subordinate shê altars 四社. These are the Cangfeng 苍峰 (Canglin 苍林) Yonganshê 永安社, the Yongningshê 永宁社 of Xipo 西坡, the Huangan xishê 黄安西社 and the Xilin 西林 (Qianhuang 前黄) Taipingshê 太平社. The main god is Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王. Left altar: Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. Right altar: Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军, and Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. 2) Cangfengjing Yonganshê 苍峰境永安社 contains a Beijidian 北极殿, and was restored in 1984. The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Beijidian is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 3) Cangfengjing Yongningshê 苍峰境永宁社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Biyundian 碧云殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Left altar: Qixing niangniang 七星娘娘. Right altar: Guangong dijun 关公帝君. 5) Yangxingtang 养性堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. 6) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 7) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fifty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 and 1/10 the Yonganshê 永安社 and Yongningshê 永宁社 combine to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao in each household. The procession includes three village elders who carry the incense burners of the shê altars. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/7–8: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Representatives are sent to Hugong Mountain Lingyundian temple 壶山凌云殿 to request incense fire 香火. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将. The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. The celebration of Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. The celebration of Ruigou shengwang 瑞沟圣王. The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the 永安社 Yonganshê. 10/25: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Yongningshê 永宁社. On each of the birthday celebrations of the gods, opera is performed for two days. The celebrations are organized by the village as a whole, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 12/5: The Xiayuan pudu 下元普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by five or six Three in One Scripture Masters from the Anbentang 安本堂经师. 5. Ritual Groups The Yongningtang 永德堂 is managed by a Buddhist nun, and is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. The village Three in One hall is called the Anbentang 安本堂 and was restored in 1993. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教堂, left altar: Zhang Sanfeng zhenren 张三丰 真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, right altar: Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchan dijun 文昌帝君, Weituo韦驮 (Hufa longtian 护法龙天) and Wen taishi 文太师. 3/3: 3/13: 4/20: 6/6: 7/23: 8/13: 9/24: 
V585 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement Xilin village was originally known as Qianhuang 前黄 or Qianlin 前林. The village belongs to the Canglin Administrative Village 苍林行政村. The village has a population of approximately 260 people living in around 56 households. Most villagers leave the village to seek work in factories. 2. Surname groups The Wu 吴 is the dominant surname group, but there are also the Su 苏, the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Xu 许 and the Lin 林 households. The Xu moved to the village from Cangkou 苍口. The Lin 林氏 came from Baisha 白沙 in the mountains. 3. Village temples 1) Qianhuangjing Taipingshê 前黄境太平社 was restored in 1987. The temple is dedicated to Chifeng jiade zunhou 敕封嘉德 尊侯 (the Shêgong 社公) and Yide furen 懿德夫人 (the Shêma 社妈), Jingong daren 金公大人, and Wencao wupan 文曹武判. On the left are Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. On the right are Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Sanxingtang 三星堂 branched off from the Kaibentang 开本堂 and is dedicated to Sanjiao xiansheng 三教先生, Sanfeng zhenren 三丰真人 and Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8 the recently married young men of the village carry a sedan chair with Jingong dare 金公大人, while others prepare five palm sedan chairs for Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 and take them on a procession around the village. Each year two Fushou are selected by rotation to manage the festivities, and funds are collected on a per capita basis to pay for opera. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/13: The celebration of Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将 is held in the home of the Fushou. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8/15: The celebration of Jiade zunhou 嘉德尊侯 and Yide furen 懿德夫人. 8/23: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 9/15: The celebration of Jingong daren 金公大人. Because the village is small, on most birthday celebrations of the gods only offerings are set out, and opera is not performed. Usually opera is performed once on 11/25 for all the gods. 
V586 Xipo 西坡 1. Village settlement Xipo was originally called Qianpu 前埔. The village belongs to the Canglin administrative village region 苍林行政村. The village population is over 800 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The Liang 梁 surname group is the dominant one. There are also four households surnamed Chen 陈 and two households surnamed Huang 黄. The Liang came to Xipo from Hushi 笏石. They are divided into seven branches. There used to be a Liang ancestral hall in which the spirit tablet of the founding ancestor Master Dexing was worshipped, but it has been torn down. The Liang are now in their fifteenth generation. Behind the village at the edge of the mountains is the tomb of Liang Puyao 梁普耀, a leader of the Three in One in the late Qing and Republican period. He is worshipped alongside Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the Three in One temple in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Xipojing Huangan xishê 西坡境黄安西社 branched off from the ancient Huangan shê altar 古黄安社. The main gods are Shuigou shengwang 水沟圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Left altar: Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 (locally referred to as shiwuma 十五妈). Right altar: Yugong yuanshuai 余公元帅 and Niushan jiangjun 牛山将军. The temple preserves an inscription copied from the temple gazetteer stating that the temple was rebuilt and endowed with land in the Qing dynasty by Liang Shitong 梁士通 and Liang Wenrong 梁文融, and was rebuilt again in Qing Tongzhi 8 (1869), then was restored in 1917 and again renovated in 1948. Then in 1951 all the gods were destroyed, but in 1982 the god statues were recarved, and in 1992 the temple was restored once more. 2) Xipojing Xianxingdian 西坡境显兴殿 is dedicated to Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 3) Juebentang 觉本堂 was built by Liang Puyao 梁普耀 and restored in 1937. The temple is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, and Hufa longtian 护法龙天. 4) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 5) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 105 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君 go on a procession to each household in the village, returning to the temple on the afternoon of 1/12. A single Daoist master is invited to recite scriptures and conduct rites. The doors of the temple are sealed. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation. Two hold the incense burners, and the other two hold the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2 or 2/3: A general celebration of the gods 文武诸神 is held and opera is performed for two or three days. 10/15: Xiayuan lanpen pudu 下元兰盆普渡 rites of Universal Deliverance are conducted by the Three in One Scripture Masters of the Juebentang. 5. Ritual Groups The village has no spirit mediums or Daoists, but over half the village has been initiated into the Three in One religious movement. 
A128 Anminqijing (Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance) 安民七境 The sevenfold ritual alliance of Anmin is located in the foothills of the Nang Mountain 囊山 and draws its water for irrigation primarily from the Jiufeng dam 九峰三坝 and the Lin Reservoir 林塘 and the Chongqin Reservoir 冲沁塘. In the Ming, the village of Qinxin 冲沁村 was settled. In the early Qing, the villages of Dongxu 东徐, Houlin 厚林, Qianzhai 前宅, Donglin 东林, Nanpu 南埔, Shanglin 上林 and Xialin 下林 divided off. This area was 
A128 Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance part of the Yishandongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) of Yanshouli subcanton 延寿里. Currently, these villages are managed by five Administrative Villages: Qindong 沁东, Qinxi 沁西, Nanlin 南林, Dongshang 东南 and Xilin 西林行政村. The Anmingong 安民宫 temple, located in Qindong 沁东 village, is the main temple of the sevenfold village alliance 七境总宫. The main gods are Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year with an intercalary seventh lunar month Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 of the Anmingong 安民宫 goes on a procession through all the villages in the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the sevenfold alliance or Anmin was part of the white banner alliance. 
V587 Qindong 沁东 1. Village settlement The population of Qindong is over 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods called Xincuo 新厝 and Jiucuo 旧厝. The irrigation for the fields comes mostly from the Liuzhuangtan 刘庄潭 irrigation system. Agriculture is highly developed. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 surname group are the main surname groups in the village. There are also the Xu 徐 and the Zhang 张 surname groups in the village. The Yao moved to Qindong from Xincentou 新岑头 in Fuqing 福清 in the mid-Ming. The Yao of Tangtou 塘头 were from Qindong. Other Yao in Putian city, Xianyou county and Xitianwei 西天尾 township all recognize the Yao of Qindong as their ancestors. 3. Village temples 1) Anmingong 安民宫 contains the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社 and is the main overall temple of the Anmin sevenfold ritual alliance七境总宫. The temple was restored in Qing Daoguang 19 (1839), Tongzhi 1 (1862), Guangxu 17 (1891), and in 1981. The main gods are Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Anling shengwang 安灵圣王, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Wudangdian 武当殿 was built in Guangxu 25 (1899) and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Tian daren 田大人, and Ma daren 马大人. 3) Fenglaidian 凤来殿 is dedicated to Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. Secondary gods include Huangshi xianfei 黄氏仙妃. 4) Yutiandong 雨田洞 was built in 1964 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 5) Deyitan 德义坛 was built in 1947 and is a center for the spirit medium tanban 坛班 altar association. 6) Qingyuanan 清源庵 was built in 1917 (PTZJZCG, 1992). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, Anmingong 安民宫 welcomes back its gods from heaven 接神. On 1/15, Jiucuo 旧厝 invites the gods of Anmingong 安民宫 to go on a procession though their territory. On 1/16, Xincuo 新厝 invites the gods of Anmingong 安民宫 to go on a procession though their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Jiucuo branch 旧厝房. 4/17: The celebration of Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 5/19: The celebration of Chenghuang dashen 城隍大神 is organized by the village as a whole. 6/15: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by the village as a whole. Each year with an intercalary seventh month, there is a procession of the god throughout the entire sevenfold ritual alliance. 10/19: The celebration of Anling shengwang 安灵圣王 is organized by the Xincuo branch 新厝房. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Both the 安民宫 and the Deyitan 德义坛 maintain tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and have conducted guanjie 关 戒 spirit medium training sessions in the past. Each year Xincuo 新厝 and Jiucuo 旧厝 separately select Fushou 福首 by rotation based on age. 
V588 Qinxi 沁西 1. Village settlement The village of Qinxi has a population of approximately 2000 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, Dingjiang 顶江 and Xiajiang 下江. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Tiegoutan 铁沟潭 irrigation system. Agriculture is highly developed. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 are the dominant surname group. There are also the Xu 徐 and the Zhang 张 minor surname groups. The Yao are related to those living in Qindong 沁东. 3. Village temples 1) Qinyuanjing Xingxianshê 沁园境兴贤社 includes the Beichendian 北辰殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong yuanshuai 邱公圣侯, Qiongcang tiandi 穹苍天地, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Jin zhongjun 金中军. 2) Chongqinjing Zhenwudian 冲沁境真武殿 includes the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, and Song zhongjun 宋中军. 3) Chongxingtan 重兴坛 is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liu Shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin Shenghou 金圣侯. 4) Xiangyundian 祥云殿 is dedicated to Yuansheng daren 袁圣大人. 5) Mingshandian 名山殿 is dedicated to Huang duyuanshuai 黄都元帅. 6) Fuzhentan 福珍坛 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 7) Yuanqingan Buddhist nunnery 源庆庵 (PTZJZCG, 1992:226). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 Dingjiang 顶江 takes Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 on a procession around its territory. On 1/14 Xiajiang 下江 takes Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 on a procession around its territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized separately by Dingjiang 顶江 and by Xiajiang 下江. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Xiajiang 下江. 4/27: The celebration of Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized separately by Dingjiang 顶江 and by Xiajiang 下江. On years with intercalary seventh lunar months, these groups participate in the procession of the Anmingong 安民宫, and carry Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 around the entire ritual alliance. 8/8: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. 8/23: The celebration of Yuansheng daren 袁圣大人 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. 8/29: The celebration of Song zhongjun 宋中军 is organized by Xiajiang 下江. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Dingjiang 顶江. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Beichendian 北辰殿, the Zhenwudian 真武殿, the Chongxingtan 重兴坛, and the Fuzhentan 福珍坛 all have spirit mediums 神童, but there are no formal training sessions. Each year Dingjiang 顶江 and Xiajiang下江 separately select Fushou 福首 in rotation by age to take responsibility for the rituals of the year. 
V589 Dongxu 东徐 1. Village settlement Dongxu village belongs to the Qindong Administrative Village 沁东行政村 The current population of the village is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups There are two main surname groups, the Xu 徐 and the Li 李. 3. Village temples Dongxujing Jixianqianzhongshê 东徐境集贤前中社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, and Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/17 the villagers takes the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. In the evening, there are linked lantern processions, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 possesses a spirit medium 神童 and transmits messages via spirit writing with planchette 扶乩. 
V590 Nanpu 南埔 1. Village settlement Nanpu village belongs to the Dongnan Administrative Village 东南行政村. The current village population is over 700 people. The main livelihood is farming, although some villagers have left to do construction work or to pursue commerce. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in the village including the Tang 唐, Fang 方, Lian 连, Cai 蔡, and Ruan 阮. 3. Village temples 1) Nanpujing Xingxianshê 南埔境兴贤社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Anling shenggong 安灵圣公, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Jiulindong 九霖洞 is dedicated to Zhuo zhenren 卓真人 (a Daoist companion of Lin Zhao’en 林兆恩, founder of the Three in One). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 the gods are carried over a fire and return to the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. Marionette plays are performed for two days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita and per household basis, along with voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups There are five spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Usually they undergo guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions that last for 1–4 days. There were such sessions held in 1985 for three days and in 1990 for three days. With the exception of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Anling shenggong 安灵圣公, all the other gods possess spirit mediums 神童. 
V591 Dongzhu 东珠 1. Village settlement Dongzhu village belongs to the Dongnan administrative village .东南行政村. The current village population is 670 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 and the Zhuang 庄 are the dominant surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 is connected to the Xinglongan 兴隆庵. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Luban xianshi 鲁班先师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Gongying tongzi 供应童子. 2) Yanniangong 延年宫 is dedicated to Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10–11 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead a procession through the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. On 1/20–30 a fengjin 奉金 ritual is performed, for which Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 道士做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 4/12: The celebration of Lüzu xianshi 吕祖仙师 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held and opera is performed for two days. 
V592 Houlin 后林 1. Village settlement Houlin village belongs to the Xilin Administrative Village 西林行政村. The village population is approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups Kang 康 and Guo 郭 are the major surnames, while Weng 翁, Lin 林, Li 李, Wang 王, Zhuang 庄, and Zheng 郑 are minor surnames. 3. Village temples 1) Lilinjing Fuchenggong 荔林境阜成宫 contains the altar of the Jixianshê 集贤社: The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯, Jingong shenghou 金公圣侯, Qiye 七爷, and Baye 八爷. 2) Jiyundian 极云殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 the villagers take Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Kanggong shenghou 康公圣侯 in sedan chairs on a procession around the village. They fire-walk before returning to the temple. Opera is performed for two to three days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 
V593 Xizhai 西宅 1. Village settlement Xizhai village belongs to the Xilin Administrative Village 西林行政村. The village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Kang 康 are the major surname group, while the Huang 黄, the Xiao 肖, the Xu 许, and the Zhuang 庄 are all minor surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Xizhaijing Wudanggong 西宅境武当宫 contains the altar of the Jinfushê 进福社, and was built in 1924. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 2) Fuxingdong 福兴洞 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers take Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 on a procession through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village, who take part in the Cangkou 苍口 and other village caihua 采花 “picking flowerflames” performances (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). 
V594 Xiashanglin 下上林 1. Village settlement Xiashanglin village belongs to the Nanlin Administrative Village 南林行政村. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, the Nanpai 南牌 and the Beipai 北牌. The population of Xiashanglin is over 1000 people. The main livelihood comes from growing longyan 龙眼树 (dragon eye) fruit trees. Beipai 北牌 has over 200 Christians. 2. Surname groups The Li 李 are the main surname group of Nanpai 南牌 with over 600 people. The Xu 许 are the main surname group in Beipai 北牌 with over 400 people. There are also the Chen 陈 with some twenty households. The Li 李 moved to Xiashanglin from Yangwei 洋尾 in Hanjiang 涵江. The Xu 许 came from Jiangxi 江西, and are divided into three lineage branches known as Fu 福, Lu 禄, and Shou 寿. The Xu have an ancestral hall in the village 祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglinshengjing Shanglin nanshê 上林胜境上林 南社 belongs to Nanpai 南牌. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大 圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Jiuchan dashen 纠察大神, and Jiutian shangdi 九天上帝. 2) Shanglin shengjing Xingxian zushê 上林胜境兴贤祖社 belongs to Beipai 北牌. This temple was originally the Xu lineage ancestral hall 许氏祠堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Jiucha dashen 纠察大神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11Beipai 北牌 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through its part of the village to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao They place Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is palm sedan chair and carry him in a procession around their territory. On 1/12 Nanpai 南牌 take the incense burners of the shê on a procession through its territory to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13 Nanpai 南牌 take Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jiucha dashen 纠察大神, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Heihu dachen 黑虎大臣 on a procession around their territory. On 2/1 Nanpai 南牌 and Beipai 北牌 separately hold fengjin 奉金 rituals, and invite Daoist ritual masters form Houlin 后林 to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/12: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by Beipai 北牌. 3/14: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by Nanpai 南牌. 8/15: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 is organized by Beipai 北牌. 8/28: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 is organized by Nanpai 南牌. On all of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation depending on their age. Dingshanglin 顶上林 1. Village settlement Dingshanglin belongs to the Nanlin Administrative Village 南林行政村. The population of Dingshanglin is 216 people. 2. Surname groups The Huang 黄 is the dominant surname group. There are also the two surnames of Ke 柯 and Cai 蔡. The Huang moved to Dingshanglin from Huangxia 黄霞 in the Ming. 3. Village temples 1) Shanglin shengjing Xingxian xishê 上林胜境兴贤 西社 is linked to the Jishanmiao 集善庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济 圣侯, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Cuifu dama 崔府大妈. 2) Shanglin’an 上林庵 belongs to the four villages of Dingshanglin 顶上林, Xiashanglin 下上林, Dongzhu 东珠, and Huibi 灰壁, and is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. The gods go on procession throughout the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On both of the above occasions, opera is performed for two days, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to perform rituals on the birthday celebrations of the gods. 
V596 Donglin 东林 1. Village settlement Donglin village belongs to the Nanlin administrative village 南林行政村. Donglin was probably established in the Ming. The current population is over 220 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 surname group has over 150 people. The Zhou 周 have over 70 people. The Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and have divided into three lineage branches. The Zhou came from Huangshi Qingpu 黄石清浦 and have divided into two lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Donglinjing Xingxian beishê 东林境兴贤北社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 are taken on a procession through the village. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation based on age. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to perform rituals on the birthday celebrations of the gods. 
A129 Yupo ershê (Yupo two shê ritual alliance) 喻坡二社 
V597 Yupo 喻坡 1. Village settlement Yupo 喻坡 was originally called Yucuo 喻厝. The village is located in the foothills of the Nangshan mountain 囊山. The main source of irrigation is from the Jiufeng sanba 九峰三坝 (three dams on the Nine Peaks). This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/ defense unit) of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. Yupo village was already settled in the early Qing. Currently the village population is approximately 1500 people. The village is managed by the Nanlin Administrative Village 南 林行政村. The local temple ritual system is divided on the basis of lineage into two shê ritual associations, the Shangshê and the Xiashê 上下二社. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the two shê alliance of Yupo was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Yu 喻, Chen 陈 and Fang方. The Yu are said to have moved here from Jiangxi 江西, and have lived in the village for eight generations. They are divided into seven lineage branches 七房, and their lineage genealogy is kept in Shangyu 上喻 near Hangjiang 涵江. The Chen moved here from Kuokou 阔口near Putian city, and are divided into four lineage branches 四房. The Fang moved from Hanjiang 涵江. 3. Village Temples 1) Yupojing zhongxiangong 喻坡境重贤宫 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yanggong xianfei 杨氏仙妃 and the Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Xinxianshê 新贤社, Xingantang 兴安堂 is the Xiashê 下社, and belongs to the Yu lineage 喻. The temple was repaired in 1981. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with secondary gods Langong yuanshuai 蓝公元帅 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Xinxianshê 兴贤社 is the Shangshê 上社 and belongs to the Chen 陈 and the Fang 方 surnames. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with secondary gods Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenwu zhushen文武诸神. 4) Yuanbentang 源本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. Yupo two shê ritual alliance 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records ten initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the Upper and Lower shê (Shang, Xia) 上, 下二社 each separately take the incense burners of their shê altars to each of their households to xingdao 行道 (carry out the Dao), and then use palm sedan chairs to carry miniature versions of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Yangshi xianfei 杨氏仙妃, Dutong yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and other gods of the assorted gods of the five altars (Wutan liesheng) 五坛列圣 on a procession around the entire village. Each household goes to the temple to light their lanterns and Daoist ritual masters are invited from Houlin 后林 to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhangong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual groups There are four spirit mediums 神童. Daoist ritual masters present them with spirit officials 赐功曹, but there has not been any guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions 
A130 Tangxi sanjia (Tangxi three jia ritual alliance) 塘西三甲 
V598 Tangxi 塘西) 1. Village settlement Tangxi is located on the western side of the Jieyang Reservoir 塘颉洋塘. This area was part of the Yishandongpu 依山东铺 (police/defense unit) of the Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton). This village was already settled in the Qing, and currently the population is approximately 2400 people. The village is managed by the Tangxi Administrative Village 塘西行政村. The temple ritual system is divided primarily on the basis of lineage and settlement into three jia ritual associations: Dingjia 顶甲, Xiajia 下甲 and Houpai 后牌三甲. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the three jia alliance of Tangxi was part of the black banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The four main surname groups of the village are the Chen 陈, Li李, Wu 吴 and the Jiang 蒋. The Chen moved here from Kuokou 阔口 near Putian, and are mostly living in Houpai 后牌. The Li 李, Wu 吴 and Jiang 蒋 live mostly in Dingjia 顶甲 and Xiaji 下甲. Tangxi three jia ritual alliance 3) Village temples 1) Tangxijing Fuangong Chongxingshê 塘西境 福安宫重兴社 is the main temple of the Tangxi three jia ritual alliance 塘西三甲总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. The secondary gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 2) Tangxijing jieshuidong 塘西境颉水洞 belongs to Houpai后牌. The main god is Yilieqiansui 伊烈千岁. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Magong daren 马公大人, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Jin jiangjun 金将军, Wei jiangjun 魏将军, Dong jiangjun 董将军 and Li jiangjun 李将军. 3) Tangxishengjing jietang lishê xunguangmiao 塘西胜境, 颉塘里社, 顺光庙 belongs to Dingjia 顶甲, and was built in 1947. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 are secondary gods. 4) Mingjufu 明竹府 belongs to Xiajia 下甲, and is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Longgong yuanshuai 龙宫元帅, Sanwei dama 三位大妈, Sanwei xiannü 三位仙女, Zhou dashen 周大神, Jin dashen 金大神 and Zhu dashen 朱大神. 5) Xitang shuyuan 西塘书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 with Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 as secondary gods. 6) Jieshuige 颉水阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 with Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 as a secondary goddess. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13, Houpai 后牌 takes the incense burners of the Chongxingshê 重兴社香炉 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/14, Dingjia 顶甲 does the same in its own territory. On 1/15, Xiajia 下甲 also does the same in its own territory. On 1/16, the three jia ritual associations hold a collective Yuanxiao festival 三甲总元宵and carry Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 in a procession around the entire village. Daoist ritual masters are invited from Duotou to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Xiajia 下甲. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the village as a whole. The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dingjia 顶甲. 4/19: The celebration of Sanwei xiannü 三位仙女 is organized by Xiajia 下甲. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Houpai 后牌. 8/20: The celebration of Yilie qiansui 伊烈千岁 is organized by Houpai 后牌. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by the village as a whole. 11/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is organized by the village as a whole. On all of these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The Jieshuidong 颉水洞 and the Mingjufu 明竹府 have altar associations 坛班 of spirit mediums, and have already completed their spirit medium trainings 关戒. Each year Fuzhou are selected in rotation on the basis of those who married first. 4/8: 
A131 Zhuopo sanjia (Zhuopo three jia ritual alliance) 卓坡三甲 
V599 Zhuopo 卓坡) 1. Village Settlement Zhuopo was originally called Zhuopu 卓埔. The village is located at the point where the water flows out of the Jieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Yishan dongpu 依山东铺 (police/ defense unit) of Yanshouli 延寿里. In the Ming the village of Putou 埔头村 was already settled in this area. In the Qing the name of this village was changed to Zhuopu 卓埔. Currently the village population is over 3000 people. The village is managed by the Zhuopo Administrative Village 卓坡 行政村. The temple ritual system is divided up according to lineage and settlement into three jia ritual associations: Tiancen 田岑, Zhaojiao 招角 and Xiacuo 下厝三甲. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Wang 王 and the Liu 刘. There are also households of Chen 陈, Zhang 张, Dong 董, Weng 翁, Lin 林 and Huang 黄 minor surname groups. Xiacuo is a single surname settlement (Wang)下厝. The Wang moved here at the end of the Ming from Gangxia 港下 in Jiangkou 江口. The Wang have divided into three lineage branches 三房. Tiancen 田岑 is a single surname settlement (Liu) as well. The Liu have divided into three lineage branches 三房. Zhaojiao 招角 is a mixed surname neighborhood, and it is said that the residents mostly moved there during the early Qing coastal evacuations from the area “beyond the borders” 界外. 
A131 Zhuopo three jia ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Yunlong shexue 云龙社学, located in Xiacuo 下厝, is the main shê altar and temple of the three jia ritual alliance 三甲祖社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马 圣王, Jin jiangjun 金将军 and Yin jiangjun 银将军. 2) Nipojing Beijidian Longxingshê 霓坡境, 北极殿, 龙兴社 is in Zhaojiao 招角, and was built in Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Tiangang yuanshuai 天罡元帅 and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 3) Xinxingshê 新兴社 divided off from Yunlong shexue 云龙社学. The temple was restored in 1957 by Overseas Chinese and in 1982 it was rebuilt again with the aid of Overseas Chinese and local donors. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, with Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 as secondary gods. 4) Shengzhongtang 省中堂, located in Xiacuo 下厝, is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷. 5) Zhimingtang 至明堂 in Xiacuo 下厝 is also dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, with Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 as secondary gods. 3) Chaoyitang 超一堂 is dedicated to Lin Longjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:5 records 100 initiates. 4) Xiadetang 夏德堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records fifty-five initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7, Xiacuo 下厝 takes the incense burners of the Yunlongshê 云龙社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/8, Tiancen 田岑 takes the incense burners of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/9, Zhaojiao 招角 takes the incense burners of the Longxingshê 龙兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道. On 1/10, the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 are carried in a procession around the village. On 1/15, the three jia ritual associations organize a collective Yuanxiao festival 三甲总元宵, and the spirit mediums of each associations 各甲神童join together for a collective procession around the village. On 2/6, the three jia 三甲 collectively distribute talismans and pray for blessings 行符祈安, and invite the spirit mediums of each village to caihua 采花 (pluck the flames—feats of imperviousness to the pain of standing bare-chested in the sparks of a massive Roman candle). Palm sedan chairs run through the streets 跑棕桥. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 龙兴社尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Longxingshê is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Tiancen 田岑. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the village as a whole. 5/16: The celebration of Tiangang yuanshuai 天罡元帅 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Tiancen 田岑. 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is organized by Zhaojiao 招角. On all these occasions, opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups There is an altar association 坛班 of spirit mediums, but there is no organized spirit medium training (guanjie 关戒). There is a set pool of Altar Assistants 扶童 for the Xuanxiao rites, and whoever becomes spontaneously possessed when the chanting begins is the spirit medium for that occasion. 
A132 Hanjiang ershisi pu (Hanjiang twenty-four ward ritual alliance) 涵江二十四铺 The Hanjiang city region is located at the confluence of the three great irrigation systems of the northern irrigated plain, the Mulan Weir 木兰陂, Yanshou Weir 延寿陂 and Taiping Weir 太平陂 irrigation systems. The Shuixin river 水心河 and the Duanming Sluice Gate 端明斗门 are located in Hanjiang 涵江. This area was part of the Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里 and included several pu (police/defense units) which were also wards and neighboring villages of the market town of Hanjiang. These include the Cantou shabanpu 仓头沙阪铺, Qianhou jiepu 前后街铺, Qingningpu 青宁铺, Xiaoyipu 孝义 铺, Jianhoupu 鑑后铺, Wutai zhongxiaopu 乌台忠孝铺, Louxiapu 楼下铺, Xinqiaotoupu 新桥头铺, Xiaxupu 下徐铺, Gongxiapu 宫下铺, Xiyuan duwei longjinpu 西园后度龙津铺, Xinpaipu 新牌铺 and Yongningpu 延宁铺. In the Ming the area of Hantoushi market 涵头市 and Houdu 后度 and Tangbei 塘北 villages were already settled. In the early Qing, this region developed into a flourishing port and market, and currently these areas have been completely transformed into city streets and apartment blocks. This region is managed by the Handong 涵东 and Hanxi 涵西 Street Management Offices 街道办事处. The temple ritual system is divided up according to traditional wards, and is referred to as the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang 二十四铺. However, currently areas of temple ritual activity are restricted to the following regions: Louxia 楼下, Baowei 保尾, Tangbei 塘北, Puwei 铺尾, Canran 苍然, Yanning 延宁, Xiaxu 霞徐 and Lindun 林墩. Many of these areas are peripheral areas of the expanding city of Hanjiang 涵江. Hanjiang twenty-four ward ritual alliance The Lijiang Chenghuangmiao 鲤江城隍庙 (City God temple) located in Jianqianpu is the central temple of the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang. This temple was first built in Qing Kangxi 5 (1666). The main god is Chenghuang dashen (the City God) 城隍大神. Each year on lunar 1/19 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated by the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang at this temple. Also, each lunar 7/15 and 10/15 a pudu ritual is held at the temple for the orphaned ghosts 祭孤仪式. Each year with an intercalary fifth month, the City God is carried in a procession through the streets of Hanjiang and to the surrounding villages. This procession and the related rituals are organized by a temple committee made up of representatives of the Twenty-four Wards of Hanjiang. Several stelae have been preserved at this temple, including one composed by You Keqing 游珂清 in Jiaqing 13 (1808) and entitled 重建涵江城隍庙碑记 (Stone inscription on the restoration of the Hanjiang City God Temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:270, No. 235). In the Ming, the market town of Hantoushi 涵头市 was renowned for its successful examination graduates. Fourteen lineages within the town produced seventeen Jinshi 进士 (Metropolitan Graduates) and sixty-four 举人 Juren (Provincial Graduates) over the course of the Ming dynasty. The Chen 陈 produced five Jinshi 进士 and sixteen Juren 举人. The Huang 黄 produced four Jinshi 进士 and eleven Juren 举人. The Lin 林 produced one Jinshi 进士 and seven Juren 举人. The Zheng 郑produced one Jinshi 进士 and five Juren 举人. The Li 李 produced two Jinshi 进士and three Juren 举人. The Zhang 张 and the Fang 方 each produced four Juren 举人. The Liu 刘 and the Lu 卢 each produced two Juren 二举人. The Zhu 朱 and the Gao 高 each produced one Jinshi 进士. The Xu 徐 and the Cai 蔡 each produced one Juren 举人. In Ming Zhengtong 11 (1446) a Jinshi 进士牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Chen lineage. In Ming Zhengtong 13 (1448) a Zhenjie 贞节牌坊 memorial archway was set up for the Lin lineage. In Ming Jingtai 7 (1456) a Yingkui 应奎牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Qiu 邱 lineage. In Ming Chenghua 2 (1466), a Hanjiang shuyuan 涵江书院 memorial archway was set up. In Ming Chenghua 3 (1467) a Buyu 步玉牌坊 memorial archway was set up in honor of the Chen 陈 lineage. In Ming Chenghua 13 (1477) the Chen lineage was again honored with a Kuibi lianhui 奎璧联 辉牌坊 memorial arch. In Ming Chenghua 19 (1483) the Chen were honored once again with a Zhejie memorial arch 贞节牌坊. In Ming Hongzhi 12 明弘治 (1499) the Qiu were again honored with a Jinshi memorial arch 进士牌坊. In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the villages of Yanning 延宁 and Baowei 保尾 were part of the white banner alliance while Xiaxupu 下徐铺 was part of the white banner alliance. Louxia 楼下 1. Village settlement Louxia was originally called Liuxia 刘下, and is located along the side of the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. 2. Surname groups Louxia was originally settled by the Liu 刘, but later became a mixed surname residential area, administered by the Hanxi Street Affairs Committee 涵西街道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Longloushê 龙楼社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人, with Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15 a lantern festival is organized along the Shuixinhe 水心河 river. Opera is performed and Daoist rites are held. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 6/24: The celebration of Yuqing tianzun 玉清天尊 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V601 Baowei 保尾 1. Village settlement Baowei was originally called Banwei 坂尾 and was part of the Shatou Cangban Pu town ward 沙头苍坂铺. Baowei was a village at the southwest edge of Hanjiang which has now been absorbed into the city and is administered by the Hanxi Street Office 涵西街道办事处. 2. Surname groups Due to urbanization, it is difficult to track the movement of surname groups in this area. 3. Village/ward temples 1) Shaban lishê 沙坂里社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. 2) Zhengjidian 正极殿 is dedicated to Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝. 3) Tianhougong 天后宫 is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 4) Tianxianfu 天仙府 is dedicated to Huang jiangjun 黄将军. Secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Lianguian 莲桂庵 is dedicated to Shijia wenfo 释迦文佛 and Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. 6) Fulingong 绂麟宫 is dedicated to Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, San furen 三夫 人, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 7) Zhixintang 志心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Others worshipped include Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人, Zhuozu zhenren 卓祖真人, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jiutian Wang dadi 九天王大帝, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, and Huang daren 黄大人. 8) Qingshantang Buddhist hall 庆善堂 (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 9) Lianguiting Buddhist pagoda 连桂亭 was built in the late Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:204) 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–10 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. On 1/12 the final night of Yuanxiao for this area is celebrated with a procession around the boundaries of the former village ward. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/14: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 2/10: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Fulingong 绂麟宫. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 2/26: The celebration of Jiutian Wang dadi 九天王大帝 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Wuhuang dadi 五皇大帝 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Huang jiangjun 黄将军 and Fude zhengshen 福德 正神 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by Zhixintang 志心堂. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝 neighborhood. 11/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific neighborhoods, or by specific temples, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. Tangbei 塘北 1. Village settlement Tangbei originally was part of the Yishan dongpu town ward 依山东铺 of Yanshouli sub-canton 延寿里. 2. Surname groups Mostly the area was inhabited by families of the Yao surname group 姚. In recent times the area has become a developed area of mixed surname groups, administered by the Handong Street Office 涵东街 道办事处. 3. Village temples 1) Xingeng zushê 新丰祖社 was first built during the Ming Jiajing period (1522–1566). The temple is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitiqan dasheng 齐天大圣 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. The secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Baima yuanshuai 白马元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 2) Jingshesi Buddhist temple 精舍寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:205) 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江 (SJCDCB, 1992:7). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–11, candles 喜烛 are lit in the Xinfeng zushê 新丰祖社 and opera is performed. On 1/10, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is carried around the entire village in a procession. In the evening there is a lantern procession, and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/15: The celebration of Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 10/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V603 Puwei 铺尾 1. Village settlement Puwei belonged to the Xinpai Pu town ward 新牌铺. Now Puwei village is managed by the Handong Street Affairs Office 涵东街 道办事处. The population of Puwei is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups There are several surnames in Puwei including the Chen 陈, the Huang 黄, the Zheng 郑, the Liu 刘, the Kang 康, the Guo 郭, the Lin 林, and the Zhou 周. The Chen are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Longjin zumiao 龙津祖庙 is dedicated to Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 and to Chen Wenlong 陈文龙. Secondary gods include Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Linshui furen 临水夫人, and Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师. 2) Longjin wenming zushê 龙津文明祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, and Huye 虎爷. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/16 Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/18: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held with three days of opera. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Linshui furen 临水夫人 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/16: The celebration of Chen Wenlong 陈文龙 is held. 9/13: The celebration of Jiuhua xianshi 九华仙师 is held. 12/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups The Longjin zumiao 龙津祖庙 has a temple management committee 董事会. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V604 Cangran 苍然 1. Village settlement Canran was originally part of the Cangqianpu 仓前铺 ward of Hanjiang town 涵江. This area of the town is administered by the Handong Street Management Office 涵东街道办事处. 2. Surname groups This area was primarily inhabited by people of the Chen surname 陈, but now has a mixed surname population. 3. Village temples 1) Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 is also called the Chenyinggong Memorial Hall 陈应功纪念馆. The temple was rebuilt in 1994 on the site of the former Shengyunmiao 盛云庙 temple. The main god is Baosheng dadi 保生大帝, with Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 as secondary gods. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/22 the gods of Lingxianmiao 灵显庙 are carried around the ritual territory while opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites in the temple. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/15: The celebration of Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 4/14: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is held with opera and Daoist rites. 
V605 Yanning 延宁 1. Village settlement Yanning belonged to the Yanning Pu (town ward) 延宁铺 in the past. Now Yanning is administered by the Handong Street Affairs office 涵东街道办事处. The population is unknown. 2. Surname groups There are Lin 林, Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zheng 郑 surnames living in Yanning. The Lin are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Yanninggong 延宁宫 contains the altar of the Xinyishê 新义社 which was built in Ming Jiajing 41 (1562) and rebuilt in 1922.The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Chongfudian 崇福殿 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 3) Yuhuatang 玉华堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992: 7 lists 230 initiates. 4) Yonglinan Buddhist temple 涌林庵 was built during Guangxu period (1875–1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 5) ShishanBuddhist temple 石善寺 was built during Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZCG, 1992:205). 6) Qingdetang Buddhist hall 清德堂 was built during Guangxu period (1875– 1908). (PTZJZCG, 199:205). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Other subsidiary temples come to Yanning to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with three days of opera. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Yanninggong 延宁宫 has a temple management committee 董事会. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V606 Xiaxu 霞徐 1. Village settlement Xiaxu originally belonged to the Xiaxupu 霞徐铺 (town ward). Now Xiaxu is part of the Hanjiang urban area, and the population is unknown. Xiaxu is divided into five jing 五境 (territories) Xiaming 霞明, Xinlin 新林, Duanming 端明, Dingjie 顶街, and Longdong 龙东. The village preserves the temple inscription composed in Daoguang 9 (1829) by Lin Daoheng 林道亨 entitled 重建昭应宫记 Records of the Restorations to the Temple of Brilliant Responses (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:301, No. 265). 2. Surname groups Many surnames live together in this area, but the Chen 陈 are the predominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xingrenshê 兴仁社 is within the Shunjimiao 顺济庙 and the Yulingong 毓麟宫. These temples are referred to as the Xiaxugong 霞徐宫, and it is the main temple of the five ritual territories of Xiaxu 五境 总宫. A official stele 示禁碑 dated in Qing Jiaqing 12 (1807) is preserved in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, and Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Zhanggong shengjun 张 公圣君, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Several stelae relating to the Hanjiang Tianhougong were originally preserved in this temple, but some were later moved to the Hanjiang Stelae Garden. The stone inscriptions about this temple include the Qianlong 15 (1750) 敕封护国庇民弘仁普济天后圣母东甌香灯 文 (Proclamation on the incense and lamp-oil --- --- --- of the eastern hall of the temple of the imperially enfeoffed Divine Matron, Empress of Heaven, who universally saves, extends her mercy, protects the people, and guards the nation) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:231, No. 201), the Qianlong 28 (1763) 兴安会馆香灯会碑记 (Stele recording the Incense and Lamp Association of the Xingan Native place Association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:244, No. 210), the Jiaqing 12 (1807) 涵江天后宫奉宪示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions by imperial decree within the Hanjiang Temple of the Empress of Heaven) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:269, No. 234), and the Guangxu 2 (1876) 重修兴安会馆碑记 (Stele recording the restoration of the Xinghua native-place association) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:331, No. 296). 2) Tianfeigong 天妃宫 is called the old temple, Jiugong 旧宫, and is said to have been founded in the Southern Song. A Ming stele with a star chart 星 图 and early Qing murals 清初壁画 survive in the temple. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Sihai longwang 四 海龙王, and Yangong 晏公. 3) Yidetang Buddhist hall 义德堂 was built in the late Qing (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 4) Jituoshan Buddhist temple 即陀山 was built in the Guangxu period (1875– 1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:204). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 2/10: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is organized by the Tianfeigong 天妃宫 which takes Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 on a procession around the entire region. Opera is performed for three days. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 9/30: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. Three days of opera are performed. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by a specific temple, and funding is raised on a per capita basis or from voluntary contributions. 5. Ritual Groups Each year each of the five ritual territories 五境 draw divination sticks to select one Fushou 福首 each. On 7/19 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Middle Prime is held and on 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance of the Lower Prime are also held. 
V607 Lindun 林墩 1. Village settlement Lindun originally belonged to Gongxiapu (town ward) 宫下铺. Now Lindun belongs to the Lindun administrative village area 林墩行政村. The population of Lindun is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups There are Lin 林, Fang 方, and Lu 卢 surname groups in Lindun, but the Lin are the dominant group. 3. Village temples Cangranjing Aoshanshê 苍然境鳌山社 is linked to the Mingdetang 明德堂. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Jixiang jiangjun 吉祥将军, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, and Jin shenghou 金圣侯. 2) Zongkongci 宗孔祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:15 records 475 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13 the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15 people take part in Gongxia’s 宫下 Yuanxiao procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/8: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with ten days of opera. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups The initiates of the Three in One temple 三一教门 in the village make up the majority of the village population. Each year they go to the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 to present incense 进香. 
A133 Gangtou sancun (Gangtou three village ritual alliance) 港头三村 The three village ritual alliance of Gangtou is located hear the Xingangtou Sluice-gate 新港斗门 on the southwest edge of Hanjiang city. This area was part of the Gangtoupu 港头铺, Qianlinou 前林铺 and Tianwei pu 田尾铺 police/defense units of Yanshouli 延寿里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Xingang 新港 was settled. In the early Qing this village branched off into Gangtou 港头, Qianlin 前林 and Tianwei 田尾. These villages are now managed by the Hanxi Administrative Village 涵西行政村. The Taishifu 太师府 temple, located in Gangwei 港尾 village, is the main temple of the three village ritual alliance. The main god is Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Each year on lunar 1/18 a general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated, and the three villages hold a joint procession of the gods. 
V608 Gangtou 港头 1. Village settlement The village of Gangtou has approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Guo 郭 and the Zheng 郑. 3. Village temples 1) Longgangjing xinyoushê 龙港境新有社 is dedicated to Zhunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and the patron of Gangtou three village ritual alliance the temple, Tanyuezhu ZhenYiji 檀越主郑颐吉. Wen Tianxiang 文天祥 is said to have written the characters giving the name of the temple. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18, the villagers of Gangtou join with Tianwei 田尾 and Qianlin 前林 in a joint procession. Spirit mediums 神 童 are possessed by the gods. On 2/6, spirit mediums are invited from nearby villages to carry out the fire gathering ritual 采花仪式 (feats of imperviousness to pain as demonstrated by standing bare-chested in the flames of a massive Roman candle). Opera is performed for three days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of the Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 9/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V609 Tianwei 田尾 1. Village settlement The village of Tianwei has approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Zheng 郑, Wu 吴, Wang 王, Huang 黄, Lin 林 and Zhan 詹. 3. Village temples 1) Longtianjing xingxianshê 龙田境兴贤社, Taishifu 太师府, is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. The secondary gods are Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. This is the main temple of the three village alliance (see above). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the villagers of Tianwei join with those of Gangtou 港头and Qianlin 前林 in a joint procession. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with two days of opera. 9/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V610 Qianlin 前林 1. Village settlement The village of Qianlin has approximately 500 residents. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are Zheng 郑, Chen陈, Guo 郭 and Li 李. Each year four Fushou 福首 are selected according to lineage in rotation to direct the ritual activities of the year. 3. Village temples 1) Qianjiangjing xinyishê, Tianhougong 钱江境新义 社天后宫. The main gods worshipped are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods are Liu shenghou 柳圣侯, Jin Shenghou 金圣侯, Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Fude zhengshen 福德正神 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/18 the villagers of Qianlin join with those of Gangtou 港头 and Tianwei 田尾 in the collective celebration of Yuanxiao, and in a common procession of the gods. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two days of opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 10/17: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Four fushou 福首 are selected in rotation according to surname group each year. 
A134 Tiancuo wucun (Tiancuo five village ritual alliance) 田厝五村 The Tiancuo five village ritual alliance is located at the central node of the irrigation system connecting Hanjiang 涵江 to Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. This area was part of the Tiancuopu 田厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the early Qing, this area was divided into “seven mounds”, and it currently includes the five villages of Zhanggongdun 张公墩, Sudun 苏墩, Ludun 卢墩, Weicuo 尾厝, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. The Xinxingshê 新兴社 temple, located in Zhanggongdun 张公墩, is the founding shê of the Seven Mounds 七墩祖社, while the Qixing zumiao 齐 兴租庙 temple in Sudun 苏墩 village is the main temple of the five village ritual alliance. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the villages of the alliance goes to the Xinxingshê to present incense 进香 and invite the gods 请神. On lunar 1/6, the Wu daren 伍大人 and Sun daren 孙大人 of Qixing zumiao 齐兴祖庙 are carried in a procession around the five villages of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the five villages of Tiancuo were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V611 Zhanggongdun 张公墩 1. Village settlement Zhanggongdun belongs to the Lindun Administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 180 people. 2. Surname groups The are five surname groups, the Hu 胡, the Lin 林, the Zhou 周, the Zhang 张, and the Lu 卢. The Hu are the dominant surname. 
A134 Tiancuo five village ritual alliance 3. Village temples 1) Qiongtianjing Xinxingshê 琼田境新兴社 is shared with Sudun 苏墩, Ludun 卢墩, Weicuo 尾厝, and Tianzhongyang 田中央. The temple was built in 1888, and was restored in 1982 and again in 2002. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 2) Jishanci 积善祠 is dedicated to Liu daren 刘大人. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16, the incense burners of the shê are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Each of the partner villages comes to present incense 进香. Movies are shown at night. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/23: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5/8: The celebration of Liugong daren 刘公大人 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera and Daoist masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held, and marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. Each year new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
V612 Sudun 苏墩 1. Village settlement Sudun village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups The two surnames are Su 苏 and Yu 俞. The Su are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples Qiongtianjing Qixing zumiao 琼田境齐兴祖庙 was built in the early Qing dynasty. The main gods are Wu daren 伍大人, Zhang daren 张大人, Sun daren 孙大人, and Zhu daren 朱大人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Peng tongzi 彭童子, and Fu tongzi 傅童子. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/6, Wu daren 伍大人 and Sun daren 孙大人 are taken on a procession through the entire ritual alliance. On 1/16, the villagers also go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/5: The celebration of Wu daren 伍大人 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of the Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 of Xinglongmiao 兴龙庙 is held, and opera is sponsored for a day in rotation with the other villages in the alliance. 9/15: The celebration of Sun daren 孙大人 is held with two days of opera, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold jiao rites 做醮. 5. Ritual Groups The Qixing zumiao 齐兴祖庙 has five spirit mediums 神童五人, and has completed a full series of guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held, and marionette plays are performed 木偶戏. Each year three new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
V613 Weicuo 尾厝 1. Village settlement Weicuo village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 80 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surnames in the village, the Su 苏 and the Zhang 张. 3. Village temples 1) Qiongtianjing Xinglongmiao 琼田境兴龙庙 is shared by all the villages in the ritual alliance. The main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Jiucha dashen 纠察大神 and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Qiongtianjing Beijidian 琼田境北极殿 was built in recent years and belongs to all the villages in the ritual alliance. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 goes on a procession through all the villages of the alliance. On 1/16, the villagers go to Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held, together with Ludun 卢墩village, and opera is performed for one day. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V614 Ludun 卢墩 1. Village settlement Ludun village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 200 people. 2. Surname groups Everyone is surnamed Lu 卢. 3. Village temples Tudimiao 土地庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 the villagers go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. Birthday celebrations of the gods 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held together with Weicuo 尾厝, and one day of opera is performed. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of age. 
V615 Tianzhongyang 田中央 1. Village settlement Tianzhongyang village belongs to the Lindun administrative village 林墩行政村. The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups Everyone is surnamed Lin 林. 3. Village temples 1) Daxingmiao 大兴庙 and Dongyuedian 东岳殿 is dedicated to Zhuzheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/16 villagers go to the Xinxingshê 新兴社 to present incense 进香. On 1/17 Zhuzheng dadi 注生大帝 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 are taken on a procession around all the villages in the alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/18: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Each year three new Fushou 福首 are selected on the basis of the year of their marriage. 
A135 Tangtou qijing (Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance) 塘头七境 The Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance is located on the eastern side of the Jieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Tangtou dongtingpu 塘头洞庭铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 延兴里. In the early Qing, the villages of Tangtou 塘头 and Shenpu 沈埔 were settled. Currently, the villages of this area are managed by the following Administrative Village committees: Sangu 三股, Gangli 巷利, Xinpu 新坡, Huangcuo 黄厝, Tanwei 潭尾 and Houyang 后洋行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual territories. The Fuxingshê 福兴社 and the connected Fuxinggong 福兴宫, located in Tangwei 塘尾 village, is the central temple 总宫 of the Tangtou sevenfold alliance. Additional sets of the statues of the main gods of each of the seven 
A135 Tangtou sevenfold ritual alliance she-altars of the allied ritual territories are also worshipped in the main temple, and each shê organizes offerings, rituals, and opera at the main temple on the birthdays of their own gods. During the Yuanxiao festivities, each of these villages goes to the main temple to invite its gods back to their village. On 2/2 a general Yuanxiao is held. The main temple has spirit mediums who are possessed by each of the gods of the seven shê. They have held guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions repeatedly, in 1983, 1986, 1999, 1993, and in 2002. Houyang village’s 后洋村 Beishê (north she) 北社 was originally part of the ritual alliance, but nowadays it has separated off from the main temple, and does not take part in the rituals activities of the alliance. The Fuxinggong preserves a stele composed in Jiaqing 23 (1818) by Li Mingding 李铭鼎 entitled 重建颉塘福兴宫碑 (Stele on the rebuilding of the Rising Wealth Temple of Jietang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:293, No. 256). In the feuding banner alliances of the late Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Tangtou was part of the black banner alliance. 
V616 Sangu 三股 1. Village settlement Sangu village has a population of approximately 2000 people, and is divided in three neighborhoods, the Shang, Zhong, and Xiashê 上, 中下社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Zheng 郑 with 800 people, the 陈 with 700 people, and the Feng 冯 with 300人 people. The Zheng moved to Sangu in the Song dynasty from Baisha 白沙 in Putian 莆田. The Chen moved to Sangu in the Ming from Yongchun 胡洋 Huyang 永春. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshangshê, zhongshê, and xiashê 湖东境福兴上社, 中社, 下社, are all within the Xingyundian 兴云殿. The temple was rebuilt in 1984. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Chen Jinggu 陈靖姑, Zhongjun 中军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Xingtinggong 兴亭宫 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Linshui furen 临水夫人. 3) Miaodayun 妙大云 belongs to the seven-shê alliance of Tangtou, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhongben shuyuan 中本书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records sixteen initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15–16, Sangu villagers go to the Fuxinggong in 福兴宫 Tangwei to invite Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Zhongjun 中军 to go on a procession through their village territory. Opera is performed for two to three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Sangu participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed. 6/10: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/21: The celebration of Zongjun 中军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 8/25: The celebration of Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by Miaodayun 妙大云, and funds are raised on a voluntary basis. Opera is perfumed 9/20: The celebration of Dage 大哥 and Erge 二哥 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Sangu participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three shê of Sangu select Fushou 福首 to rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V617 Xinpo 新坡 1. Village settlement Xinpo was originally called Shenpu 沈埔. Xinpo village has a population of over 3000 people. The main livelihood is tile making and labor in the kilns. 2. Surname groups The Zheng 郑 are the dominant surname group. The are also the Zhang 张 and the Yi 蚁 minor surname groups. The Zheng moved to Xinpo from Qiandai in Putian city 前埭, and have divided into five lineage branches. There is a Zheng lineage ancestral house 郑氏祖厝 in Xinpo. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing nanshê 湖东境福兴南社 is inside the Xinpotang (also called the Ruiyundian) 新坡堂(瑞云殿) the main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xietian dadi 协天大帝, and Lushi furen 卢氏夫人. 2) Xunzhong shuyuan 顺中书院 was rebuilt in 2006 and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, and Sanfeng zhenren 三峰真人. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 95 initiates. 3) Sanyitang 三一堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records forty-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, Xinpo goes to the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invited Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 back to the village to go on a procession, while opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xinpo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/22: The celebration of Xietian dadi 协天大帝 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Lushi furen 卢氏夫人 is held. 6/16: The celebration of Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. All these events are organized by the village as a whole, and opera is performed for two to three days. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Xinpo has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual specialists of whom four are Daoist masters. Xinpo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year each lineage branch selects the Fushou 福首 who will rotate into positions of responsibility based on age. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V618 Xiangli 巷利 1. Village settlement Xiangli is also know as Hanli 汉利. Gangli has a population of over 1200 people. The village was founded in the Ming dynasty. The main livelihood comes from working in the tile kiln factories. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Huang 黄, who came from Huangxiang 黄巷, and have divided into three lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxing lishê, Maolinyuan 湖东境福兴 利社, 茂林园. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Chengong zushi 陈公祖师. 2) Shuntian shuyuan 顺天书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Linshui furen 临水夫人, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, and Taihuashan 泰华山. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records twenty-eight initiates. 3) Pingtianci 平天祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Chengong zushi 陈公祖师. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records thirty initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14–15, Xiangli goes to Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invite Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, and Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君 back to the village to go on a procession. Opera is performed for two days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Xiangli participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君 is held. Opera is performed for two to three days. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. Marionette plays are performed. 8/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Gangli participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the three lineage branches select the Fushou 福首 by rotation according to age. On 10/15 the 下元普渡 xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V619 Tanwei 潭尾 1. Village settlement Tanwei has a population of approximately 1800 people. The main livelihood is working in tile kilns and factories. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Yang 杨 and the Wu 吴. The Yang moved to Tanwei from Sangu 三股 and have formed three lineage branches. There is a Yang ancestral hall 杨氏祠堂. The Wu moved from Daili 埭里 and have formed two lineage branches. There is a Wu ancestral chamber 吴氏祖厅. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Fuxingshê, Fuxinggong 湖东境福兴社, 福兴宫 is the main temple of the Tangtou seven-shê alliance 塘头七社总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Erdian zhenjun 二殿真君, Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Zhonglie (Tiangong) yuanshuai 忠烈(田公)元帅, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Hudongjing Fuxing xishê 湖东境福兴西社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 3) Shundetang 顺德堂 contains the altar of Fuxing xishê 福兴西社. The main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯. 4) Demingtang 德明堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 109 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Tanwei villagers go to the Fuxinggon 福兴宫 to invite Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 and Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 to go on a procession through the village. Opera is performed for three days. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Tanwei participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/13: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held 9/9: The celebration of Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Tanwei participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. There are eight spirit mediums 神童 in the village. Each year the lineage branches select the Fushou 福首 by rotation according to age. 
V620 Huangcuo 黄厝 1. Village settlement Huangcuo has a population of approximately 1000 people. The main livelihood is working in kilns and tile factories. 2. Surname groups The only surname is the Huang 黄, who moved from Huangxiang 黄巷 and have divided into four lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjin Fuxiingdongshê 湖东境福兴东社 is within the Yuxingtang 玉兴堂. The temple was rebuilt in 1984 and the main gods are Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Fenghuo ertong 风火儿童, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Guigu xianshi 鬼谷仙师, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 2) Yuxingtang 玉兴堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records 115 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Huangcuo villagers go to Fuxinggong 福兴宫 in Tangwei to invite Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 back to the village to go on a procession. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist masters conduct a pinganjiao 平安醮. Early in the 2nd lunar month, Huangcuo participates in the general Yuanxiao festivities of the seven shê alliance. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held 8/15: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Huangcuo participates in the guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions organized by Fuxinggong 福兴宫. Each year the Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. On 10/15 the 下元普渡 xiayuan pudu rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V621 Houyang 后洋 1. Village settlement The population of Houyang village is approximately 2000 people. The main livelihood is brick and tile making. 2. Surname groups The Yao 姚 surname group is dominant. They moved to Houyang from Chongqin 冲沁, and have divided into the following four lineage branches: Dacheng 大埕, Gongbian 宫边, Weicuo 尾厝, and Houcuo 后厝. 3. Village temples 1) Houyangjing Hudong beishê 后洋境湖东北社 is within the Fuxinggong 福兴宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Sijiang zhenren 司鉴真人. 2) Shiyitang 师义堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:10 records seventy-one initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–13, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each household to xing dao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, the gods of Fuxinggong 福兴宫 are taken on a procession around the village, opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. 7/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人, and Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 10/15: The celebration of Sijiang zhenren 司鉴真人. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Fushou 福首 are selected, in rotation, on the basis of age. 
A136 Tangdong Sancun (Tangdong three village ritual alliance) 塘东三村 The Tangdong three village ritual alliance is located on the eastern side of the Xieyangtang 颉洋塘 Reservoir. This area was part of the Tangtou dongtingpu 塘头洞庭铺 and the Puweipu 埔尾铺 of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Tangdong 塘东 was settled. In the early Qing, this village divided into the three villages of Dongting 洞庭, Puwei 埔尾 and Linbing 林柄. These villages are managed by the Administrative Village committees of Dongting 洞庭 and Linbing 林柄行政村. The Gutang shexue 古塘社学 temple, located in Puwei 埔尾 village, was originally the founding she-altar of the three village alliance. The main gods of the temple are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Formerly the three villages collectively celebrated Yuanxiao together, but currently they no longer hold joint processions and rituals. Instead, they have joined the collective procession of the Tangtou thirteen jia ritual alliance 塘头十三甲. The temple preserves a stele composed in Daoguang 2 (1822) by Huang Jingsi 黄进思 entitled 重修古塘社学碑 (Record of the restoration of the village earth god temple and school of Gutang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:296, No. 260). 
A136 Tangdong three village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the three villages of Tangdong were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V622 Dongting 洞庭 1. Village settlement The village of Dongting has a population of over 4000 people. The village was established in the Song dynasty. The main livelihood is farming. 2. Surname groups The three main surname groups are the Yao 姚, the Liu 刘, and the Xu 徐. The Yao 姚 moved to the village from Chongqin 冲沁 and have divided into six branches. There is a Yao lineage ancestral hall 姚氏宗祠. The Liu 刘 moved to the village in Qing Kangxi 25 (1686) from Aoshan 鳌山. 3. Village temples 1) Hudongjing Huposhê 湖东境湖坡社 is merged into the Dongtinggong 洞庭宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Secondary gods include Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Yidian zhenjun 一殿真君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhengyi lingguan 正一灵官, Wuan shengwang 武按 圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Fumo yuanshuai 伏魔元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Haotian dizi 昊天帝子, Qiugong shenghou 邱公圣侯, Dong shizhe 东使者, Xi shizhe 西使者, and Zhongjun 中军. 2) Chuanjing zumiao 传经祖庙( also known as the Zhanggongfu 张公府), belongs to the Liu 刘, and branched off from Aoshan 鳌山分炉. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, and Lidai gongma 历代公妈. 3) Huancuiting 环翠亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 迦兰. 4) Yulinfu 毓麟府 is dedicated to Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 5) Yuhuatang 玉华堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shijiawenfo 释伽文佛, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, and Lü Dongbin 吕洞宾. 6) Judetang 居德堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On ¼, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 with three days of opera. On 1/14–15, the Liu 刘 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xing dao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. On 1/15–16, the Yao 姚 villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. Three days of opera are performed. 4/17: The celebration of Fumo yuanshuai 伏魔元帅 is held 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. 6/26: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups In 1989 the first guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session was held, and there are now eight spirit mediums 神童. On 10/15 Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are held. 
V623 Linbin 林柄 1. Village settlement Linbin village has a population of approximately 1500 people. The village is divided into two neighborhoods, called Shangcuo 上厝 and Xiacuo 下厝. The village has already been transformed into an industrial park 2. Surname groups The main surname group is the Lin 林. They moved to Linbin from Putian city and have divided into ten branches. There are also the Yang 杨 and the Zheng 郑 surname groups. Originally, there were the Chen 陈 and the Gong 龚 households, but due to marriage ties they have changed their surnames to Lin. 3. Village temples 1) Yulinjing Guoanshê 玉林境国安社 is linked with the Yulingong 玉林宫. The temple was built in Qing Qianlong period (1736–1795). The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Jin jiangjun 金将军, and Wu jiangjun 吴将军. 2) Tianhougong 天后宫 was built in the Republican period, and is dedicated to Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Liugong shenghou 柳公圣侯 and Jingong shengjou 金公圣侯 and Yulin shengmu 毓麟圣母. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/4, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 and the first opera of the year 头场戏 is performed. On 1/11– 12, Shangcuo 上厝 takes Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 on a procession through its territory. At night there are linked lantern processions 圈灯, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/12–13, Xiacuo 下厝 takes Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 on a procession through its territory. At night there are linked lantern processions 圈灯, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. On 1/16, the entire village celebrates a general Yuanxiao festival 总元宵 and the spirit mediums 神童 of neighboring villages are invited to caihua 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and opera is performed for three days. On 2/2, the toufu 头福 (first good fortune) rites are performed, and each household goes to the temple to worship. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. 5/3: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/13: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. All of these events are organized by the village as a whole. Opera is performed for two days each time, and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Linbin village has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. Currently there are six spirit mediums in the village, and they have gone through guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions. 
V624 Puwei 埔尾 1. Village settlement The village of Puwei has a population of approximately 700 people. The village has already been transformed into an industrial park. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Yao 姚 and the Ruan 阮. There are also Chen 陈 and Li 李 surnames in the village. The Yao 姚 moved here from Fuqing 福清, while the Ruan 阮 moved to Puwei from Putian 莆田 city. The Ruan have divided into two lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Nipojing Gutang shexue 霓坡境古塘社学 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Li sanfuren 李三夫人, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Jixiang dajiang 吉祥大将, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, villagers carry the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. That night there are processions of linked lanterns. On 1/19, the general Yuanxiao festival is celebrated 总元宵 by carrying Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 in a procession around the village. Opera is performed for three days and Daoist ritual masters conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/26: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held. A delegation goes to the Jiangkou Dongyueguan 江口东岳观 to request incense fire 香火. Opera is performed for three days. 5/5: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 9/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. These events are organized by the village as a whole, Opera is performed for two days and funds are raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups Each year the Yao 姚 and the Ruan 阮 each select two Fushou 福首 in rotation based on age. There is a tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their assistants. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions have been held three times. 
A137 Jindun sicun (Jindun four village ritual alliance) 金墩四村 The Yangzhong four village ritual alliance is located to the east of Hanjiang in the intermediate zone linking Hanjiang’s irrigation system to the coastal region. This area was part of the Jindun Sucuopu 金墩苏厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the village of Jindun 金墩 was settled. In the Qing, the villages of Sucuo 苏厝 and Yangzhong 洋中 branched off. Currently these villages are managed by the Fangshan Administrative Village 芳山行政村. In the Xianziding 仙仔顶 neighborhood of Jindun 金墩 village there once stood the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙 temple, which is said to have been built in Song Gaozong’s reign in Shaoxing 21 (1151). This was the main temple 总宫 of Guishan 龟山 (Yangzhong 洋中), Meishan 眉山 (Sucuo 苏厝 and Zhongdun 中敦) and Jinshan 金山 (now Jindun 金墩). This temple was torn down in Qianlong 26 (1761) and divided into the three temples of Guishangong 龟山宫, Zhaolinggong 昭灵宫, and Jinshangong 金山宫. Jindun four village ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four villages of Jindun were part of the white banner alliance. 
V625 Sucuo 苏厝 1. Village settlement Sucuo village is part of the Fangshan administrative village area 芳山行政村. The village population is over 3280 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Fang 方, the Zheng 郑, the Zeng 曾, and the Su 苏. The Fang 方 came from Hunan 湖南. The founding ancestor was an official in Youtang near Putian, and later descendants fled from pirate invasions to Sucuo village. There is a Duqingci 笃庆祠 Fang ancestral hall, and a lineage genealogy 族谱. The Zheng 郑 came from Jiaji 夹漈 and first moved to Duotou 哆头 before moving to Sucuo village. There is a Zheng ancestral hall 郑氏祠堂. The Zeng 曾 came from Sishui 泗水. The Su 苏 came from Zhuangsutian 庄苏田, and are divided into the Shangsu 上苏 and Xiasu 下苏 lineage branches. They have preserved a lineage genealogy 族谱. 3. Village temples 1) Meishanjing Zhaolinggong 眉山境昭灵宫 contains the altar of the Xinganshê 兴安社, which belongs to the Zheng 郑, Fang 方, and Zeng 曾, and the Baoguang longshoushê 葆光隆寿社, which belongs to the Su 苏 and the Zeng 曾. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, the Xinganshê 兴安社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, and the Baoguang longshoushê 葆光隆寿社 Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Lingya zhongjun 灵牙中军, Zhou daye 周大爷, Yang erye 杨二爷, and Huye 虎爷. 2) Shenglingmiao 声灵庙 is the center of the spirit medium tanban 坛班 altar association. Here mediums are possessed and spirit writing is transmitted by planchette. The main god is Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Tianshi gutan 天师古坛, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. The temple has an ancient altar of the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. 3) Fubentang 复本堂 belongs to the Wuben branch of the Three in One 悟本派. The main gods is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu dama 鲁府大妈, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Cuifu dama 崔府大妈, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhang Tianshi 张天师. 4) Ciyunting 慈云亭 is located outside the village, and was built in Qing Guangxu period (1875–1908). The temple is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Beichengong 北辰宫 is located outside the village, and is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 6) Fumaci 驸马祠 is dedicated to Yufeng Yinglie shenghou 御封英烈 圣侯. Secondary gods include Yawei jiangjun 押卫将军, and Libu shilang 吏部侍郎. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/5, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭, organized by the Fang 方, and the first opera of the year is performed 头场戏. On 1/6, the Fang 方take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/7, the Zeng 曾 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/8, the Su 苏 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/9, the Zheng 郑 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18–19, the Shenlingmiao 神灵庙 spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession around the entire village, and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. The spirit mediums 神童 of nearby villages are invited to caihua 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks). Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held and opera is performed for four or five days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/16: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 of the Baoguan longshoushê 葆光隆寿社 is organized by the Su 苏. 8/20: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinganshê 兴安社 is organized by the Zeng 曾, Zheng 郑, and Fang 方. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by neighborhood or by lineage, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are over 300 Three in One initiates in Sucuo village. The chairmen of the temple committee are a group of over twenty representatives. Over eighty people are involved in regular scripture explication and recitation. The Shenglingmiao 声灵庙 has a tanban 坛班 altar association with ten spirit mediums 神童, but they do not practice guanjie 关戒 trainings. 
V626 Zhongdun 中墩 1. Village settlement Zhongdun belongs to the Fangshan administrative village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 800 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are Zheng 郑, Zeng 曾, and Su 苏. 3. Village temples 1) Sushanjing Beichengong 苏山境北辰宫 contains the Xinzudong 新祖洞. This temple branched off from the Zhaolinggong of Sucuo 苏厝昭灵宫. At first it was only an earth god shrine next to the kilns, but in recent years it has been rebuilt and expanded. The main gods are Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/7–10, the villagers take part in Sucuo’s 苏厝 villages processions, carrying the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, the villagers again take part in Sucuo’s 苏厝 processions, and their roadways are also sealed against demonic influences 封路. They also invite Daoist masters to perform rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Zhongdun takes part in the Sucuo zhaolingong 苏厝昭 灵庙 tanban 坛班 altar association of spirit mediums and their assistants. There is no practice of guanjie spirit medium training. 
V627 Jindun 金墩 1. Village settlement Jindun belongs to the Fangshan administrative village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are the Zheng 郑, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, and the Kang 康 surname groups in Jindun village. 3. Village temples 1) Jinshanjing Xining zushê 金山境熙宁祖社 is inside the Jinshangong 金山宫. This temple was built in Qing Qianlong 26 (1761), when it branched off from the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙. There is a stele commemorating repairs from Qing Xianfeng 10 (1860) in the temple. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 (two gods), Houtu furen 后土夫人 (two gods), and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuan shuai 康公元帅, Gegong dajiang 葛公大将, Fuhu jiangjun 伏虎将军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 2) Wulugong 五路宫 is dedicated to Wulu jiangjun 五路将军. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/18, spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 8/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 11/6: The celebration of Wulu jiangjun 五路将军 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Jindun has three spirit mediums 神童. There is no practice of guanjie 关戒. 
V628 Yangzhong 洋中 1. Village settlement Yangzhong village is managed by the Fangshan Administrative Village 芳山行政村. The village population is over 1200 people living in around 260 households. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Liu 刘, who came from Fuzhou 福州. The Liu ancestral tombs are in Hanjiang and there is a 1924 stele protecting the tomb site 民国十三年县知事示禁碑. 3. Village temples 1) Guishanjing Xining zushê 龟山境熙宁祖社 is inside the Guishangong 龟山宫, which is also called the Taishifu 太师府. This temple was built in Qianlong 26 (1761) when it branched off from the Yangzhong zumiao 杨忠祖庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Tiegong taishi 铁公太师, Magong taishi 马公太师, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Shizhe zhongjun 侍者中军, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and the roadways are sealed against demonic influences 封路. Opera is performed and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/2: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held with five opera performances over three days 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with five opera performances over three days 7/7: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 and Lufu furen 鲁府夫人 is held with two or three days of opera. 9/27: The celebration of Magong taishi 马公太师 and Tiegong taishi 铁公 太师 is held with two or three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups Yangzhong has three spirit mediums 神童. There is no guanjie 关戒. 
A138 Tiezao liujia (Tiezao six jia ritual alliance) 铁灶六甲 
V629 Tiezao 铁灶) 1. Village settlement Tiezao was originally called Qixingdun 七星墩 and Zheshan 哲山, and it was commonly referred to as the Shisanshan tiezao “十三山铁灶”. Tiezao is located in between the northern irrigated plain 北洋 and the Jiuliyang 九里洋 irrigated plain, in hilly country. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Xieyang Reservoir 颉洋塘. This area was part of the Tiezaopu 铁灶铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli subcanton 望江里. The village of Tiezao was settled in the early Qing. Currently Tiezao is both an administrative village and a natural village. The total village population is over 6000 people. The temple ritual system is divided into five neighborhood ritual associations (jia 甲) on the basis of different surnames. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, Tiezao was part of the white banner alliance. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈, the Wu 吴, and the Zheng 郑 are the major surnames. The are also the minor surnames of the Lin 林, the Weng 翁, the Cheng 程, the Zhang 张, and the Xu 许. 3. Village temples 1) Qiantangjing Xinxingshê 钱塘境新兴社 was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 11 (1746), and rebuilt again in 1980. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Huban dashen 虎班大神, Tang dajiang 唐大将, He dajiang 葛大将, Zhou dajiang 周大将, Su dajiang 苏大将, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Longtian yuanshuai 龙天元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qiuer yuanshuai 邱二元帅, Dong er yuanshuai Tiezao six jia ritual alliance 董二元帅, Li Ming dajiang 李明大将, Jinyu ertong 金玉儿童, Zhu sheren 朱舍人, and Wenwu zhushen 文武诸神 2) Qiantangjing Dongyueguan 钱塘境东岳观 was built in 1984. This temple branched off from the Jiangkou 江口 Dongyueguan 东岳观. The main god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Xi qiwang 西齐王, Dong pingwang 东平王, Bingling gong 炳灵公, Huang jiangjun 黄将军, and Cao jiangjun 曹将军. 3) Fulingong 绂麟殿 is dedicated to Lufu dama 鲁府大妈 and Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Huang Cang 黄仓, and Bai Cang 白仓. 4) Qiantangjing Sanguantang 钱塘境三官堂 is dedicated to Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Shijia rulai 释迦如来, Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母, Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. 5) Enshantang 恩山堂 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, and Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣. 6) Chongshengci 崇圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tianguan dadi 天官大帝, Diguan dadi 地官大帝, Shuiguan dadi 水官大帝, Xiaosheng xianshi 肖圣仙师, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Zhangsheng xianshi 张圣先师, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Shangyang zhenren 上阳真人, Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Zhu Huixu 朱慧虚, and Daye 大爷. 7) Yushantang 玉山堂 (also called the Beigushê 北古社) is dedicated to Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 8) Yushengdian 玉神殿 and the Zhengyitang 正一堂 are dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊 and Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Chenshi xiannü 陈氏仙女, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅. 9) Kunyuantang 坤元堂 was built in Qing Guangxu guimao (1903). The main god is Rulai fozu 如来佛祖. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 and Weituo zuntian 韦驮尊天. 10) Beijidian 北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Nandou xingjun 南斗星君 and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 11) Qinghuage 清华阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 12) Qiongdaoci 琼岛祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Wenwu shengren 文武圣人, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. 13) Fuxingtang 福兴堂 is dedicated to Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 14) Enshanjing Dongqingsi 恩山境东清寺 is said to have been founded in the Ming dynasty and was repaired in the Guangxu period. A pillar from Qing Guangxu yiwei (1895) survives in the temple. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽蓝. The right hand hall has Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Meng jiangjun 孟将军, Qijiangjun 齐将军, and Zhenshen daye 正神大爷. 15) Shengmingci 圣明祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 240 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Chen 陈 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Wu 吴 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the Chen of Dingcuo 顶厝陈 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13, the Zheng and the Lin of Niulu 牛路郑林 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14, the Zhang 张 and the Xu 许 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, Chengcuo 程厝 and Wengcuo 翁厝 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/19, a general Yuanxiao celebration is held, and Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Fazhu shengfei 法主圣妃, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhongtian yuanshuai 中天元帅, and Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 are taken on a procession through the entire village. Opera is performed for ten to fifteen days. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held and marionette plays are performed. 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Chongshengci 崇圣祠. 2/5: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is held. 2/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held and marionette plays are performed. 3/3: The celebration of Yuantian shangdi 元天上帝 is held. The celebration of 注生大帝 is held and a procession goes around the entire village, and opera is performed for thirty days. 4/15: The celebration of Cao jiangjun 曹将军 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. 5/12: The celebration of Bingling gong 炳灵公 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 5/15: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is held 6/1: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is held. 7/13: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. 7/18: The celebration of Dong pingwang 东平王 is held. 8/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed both before and after for thirty days. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is held. 9/19: The celebration of Xi Qiwang 西齐王 is held. 10/24: The celebration of Wangmu niangniang 王母娘娘 is held 10/26: The celebration of Huang jiangjun 黄将军 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, unless otherwise specified. Funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinxingshê 新兴社 has spirit mediums 神童, but has not held guanjie 关戒 training sessions. The Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Dongyueguan 东岳观 have temple management committee 董事会 on which representatives from each neighborhood have a voice. The village has its own Puxian opera troupe 莆仙戏剧团. 3/28: 
A139 Wencuo sanshê (Wencuo three shê ritual alliance) 温厝三社 The Wencuo three shê ritual alliance is located in hilly country between the northern irrigated plain and the Jiuliyang irrigation system. Water for irrigation is primarily drawn from springs on Nangshan mountain 囊山. This area was part of the Wenyuanpu 温院舖 (police/defense unit) of the Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the villages of Yuanbian 院边 and Huangdachen 黄大埕 were settled. In the early Qing, the village of Wencuo 温厝 branched off. These villages are now managed by the Tiezao 铁灶 and Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to the original shê-altars and temples into three shê ritual associations. Wencuo three shê ritual alliance Currently, the Sanshêgong 三社宫 temple, located in Linbin 林柄 (which is now an industrial park), is the main temple of the three shê alliance 三社 总宫. The Sanshêgong 三社宫 was first built in the early Qianlong period. Recently, due to the creation of an industrial park, the temple was torn down and rebuilt in a new location. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明 王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, each of the dependant villages will come to the temple to request incense fire. On 2/25 the celebration for Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held, and on 7/23 there is a celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. On 10/6 there is a celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each of these occasions is marked by two days of opera, and these events are organized by the Sanshêgong temple management committee. 
V630 Wencuo 温厝 1. Village settlement Wencuo belongs to the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is 317 people living in 74 households. 2. Surname groups The Yang 杨 are the dominant surname. The Yang of Tangtou all came from this village. 3. Village temples 1) Jiaoshanjing Zhongyingshê 蛟山境钟英社 within the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Yanggong taishi 杨公太师. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣. 2) Fudetang 福德堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Secondary gods are Daye 大爷, Erye 二爷, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners of Sanshêgong 三社宫社 are taken to go to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/24, spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession around the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold a jiao ritual 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 10/12: The celebration of Daye 大爷 is held. 11/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. There are seventeen older generation spirit mediums 神童 and assistants, and 41 new generation mediums and assistants. In recent years there has been one guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training session. 
V631 Huangdating 黄大庭 1. Village settlement Huangdating was originally known as Huangdacheng 黄大埕. The village was managed by the Tiezao Administrative Village 铁灶 行政村. In 1992, the village was transformed into an industrial part. There are some 67 households of Huangdating villagers, with over 300 people, living in the neighboring villages, but they still maintain their village rituals. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups in the village, the Chen 陈 and the Lin 林. The Chen 陈 is the major surname. 3. Village temples Fengshanjing Guoanshê 凤山境国安社 is within the Fengshangong 凤山宫. The temple was torn down and rebuilt in a new location in 1994. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Chenshi xiangu 陈氏仙姑, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, and Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the incense burners of the Sanshêgong 三社宫 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/24: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual groups The Fushou 福首 are selected in rotation from among the dozen or so households still living in the vicinity of the temple. 
V632 Liuan 刘安 1. Village settlement Liuan was originally made up of the villages of Yuanbian 院边 and Qianzheng 前郑. In th late Ming, these villages were destroyed by pirate invasions, and the two villages later merged to become Liuan. Liuan belongs to the Tiezao Administrative Village 铁灶行政村. The current village population is approximately 1000 people. 2. Surname groups There are the following surname groups in Liuan: the Chen 陈, the Zheng 郑, the Guan 关, the He 何, and the Zhou 周. The Chen and the Zheng are the major surname groups. The Chen came from Yuanbian 院边, and the Zheng came from Qianzheng 前郑. 3. Village temples 1) Meipojing Tonglinggong 梅坡境通灵宫 contains the Liuanshê 刘安社, and belongs to the He 何 and Zhou surname groups 周. The main gods are Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大 将, Majia jiangjun 马贾将军, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xiaogong shengjun 萧公圣君, Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Jinyu tongzi 金玉童子, and Zhu sheren 朱舍人. 2) Qianzhengjing Qianzhengshê 前郑境前郑社 belongs to the Zheng 郑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃. 3) Beijidian 北极殿 was built in Qing Guangxu 5 (1879) and was restored in 1989. This temple belongs to the Zheng 郑, the He 何, and the Zhou 周. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. 4) Songpojing Shengxingshê 松坡境胜兴社 is linked to the Tengyungong 腾云宫 and belongs to the Chen 陈. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇 大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, and Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the incense burners of the Meiposhê 梅坡社 and the Shengxingshê 胜兴社 are separately carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/22, spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession through the entire village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Daoist ritual masters are invited to hold Jiao rituals 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the village as a whole. 2/5: The celebration of Chenshi zhenren 陈氏真人 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. 4/12: The celebration of Chenggong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 5/16: The celebration of Heaven and earth 天地 is organized by the village as a whole. 7/6: The celebration of Lufu dashen 鲁府大神 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Meiposhê 梅坡社. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Liuanshê 刘安社 and the Qianzhengshê 前郑社 is organized by the Zheng 郑, He 何, and Zhou 周. 8/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shengxingshê 胜兴社 is organized by the Chen 陈. 12/10: The celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅 is organized by Shengxingshê 胜兴社. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the neigbourhood or lineage group specified, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis within the specific territorial or lineage unit. 5. Ritual Groups Both the Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 and the Tengyungong 腾云宫 have spirit mediums 神童, but there have not been any guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. 3/3: 
A140 Houguo sishê (Houguo four shê ritual alliance) 后郭四社 The Houguo four shê ritual alliance is located at the border between the northern irrigated plain and the Jiuliyang irrigated plain. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the channels of the Nananbei 南安陂 irrigation system. This area was part of the Tiantou Houguopu 田头后郭铺 (police/ defense unit) of the Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the early Qing, the villages of Houguo 后郭, Tiantou 田头, and Houdong 后董 were settled. Currently these villages are managed by the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into four shê ritual associations. The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 temple, located in Houguo village, is the main temple of the four shê ritual alliance. The main god is Baosheng dadi 保生大帝. It is said that formerly a joint Yuanxiao procession and ritual was celebrated by the four shê alliance, but these collective rites have not been revived. 
A140 Houguo four shê ritual alliance In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the four shê of Houguo were part of the black banner alliance. 
V633 Houguo 后郭 1. Village settlement Houguo is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Houguo is over 3600 people. Houguo is divided into several neighborhoods including Jingliu 井刘, Dacuo 大厝, Dashê 大社, Tuoli 坨里, Qianmian 前面, Xiapo 下坡, Dingpo 顶坡, Dutouli 杜头利, and Liucuo 刘厝. There are many overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in Houguo including the Chen 陈, the Liu 刘, the Lin 林, the Zeng 曾, the Cai 蔡, the Zheng 郑, and the Zhao 赵. The Chen 陈 are the main surname group. The Chen moved to Houguo village from Kuokou 阔口, after first living in Puwei 埔尾. 3. Village temples 1) Chelujing Xiangongtang 车辂境仙宫堂 contains the altars of the Xinyishê 新义社 and the Youwanshê 游湾社. The main gods are Baosheng dadi 保生大帝 (Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君), and for the Youwanshê 游湾社, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. For the Xinyishê 新义社, the main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Chishui lingguanfa dadi 勅水灵官 法大帝, Zhengyi linguan Ma yuanshuai 正一灵官马元帅, Taiyi sanxiangu 太乙三仙姑, Wugong dutong 吴公都统, Jinshi dajiang 金氏大将, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xianzheng zunhou 显圣尊侯, Feitian dawang 飞天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Zhang shizhe 张使者, and Liu shizhe 刘使者. There is a stele in the temple composed in 1937 entitled 仙宫堂题捐禁约碑 (Stele listing the contributions to the Immortal Palace Hall and its rules and prohibitions) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:368, No. 334). 2) Wanghaitang and Qingsongting 望海堂, 青松亭 belong to the Chen of Dingpo 顶坡陈. The main god is Magong yuanshuai 马公元帅. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 3) Zhenwudian 真武殿 belongs to the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 and Chishui lingguan Fadadi 敕水灵官法大帝. 4) Xiangmingtang 尚明堂 belongs to the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and the Liucuo Liu 刘厝刘, and is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Yulingong 毓麟宫 the Liu 刘 of Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. The main gods are Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, and Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Caigong yuanshuai 蔡公元帅. 6) Feiyunguan飞云馆 belongs to Dutouli 杜头利, and the main god is Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 and Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王. 7) Zhanggongfu 张公府 belongs to Xiapo 下坡 and is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君. 8) Hudao shuyuan 壶岛书院 (also known as Baogongci 报功祠) belongs to what some villagers call the Xianghuapai 香花派 of the Three in One religious movement, implying that the initiates perform rituals for a livelihood. They have already passed down their ritual tradition for four generations. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 9) Pengdaoci 蓬岛祠 belongs to the Wubenpai 悟本派 of the Three in One tradition, which primarily recites scriptures. The main gods is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主, Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰 and Zhuo Wanchun 卓晚春. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 280 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–12, the Chen of Dingpo 顶坡陈 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/13–14, Dacuo 大厝, Xiapo 下坡, Dashê 大社, and Dutouli 杜头利 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/14–15 Liujing 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The celebration of Xiansheng Zunhou 显圣尊侯 is organized by Dacuo 大厝. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. 3/1: The celebration of Liu shizhe 刘使者 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by Jingliu 井刘. 3/13: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinyishê 新义社 is organized by Dacuo 大厝, Dashê 大社, Xiapo 下坡, and Tuoli 坨里 3/15: The celebration of Baosheng dadi 保生大帝(Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君) is held. 4/4: The celebration of Leshui lingguanfa dadi 敕水灵官法大帝 and Zhang shizhe 张使者 is organized by Jingliu 井刘. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by Dutouli 杜头利. 4/13: The celebration of Jinshi dajiang 金氏大将 is held. 4/18: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. 5/13: The celebration of Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. 6/1: The celebration of Wugong dutong 吴公都统 is organized by Dashê 大社. 6/11: The celebration of Feitian dasheng 飞天大圣 is organized by Liucuo 刘厝 6/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Youwanshê 游湾社 is organized by Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝 and Dingpo 顶坡. 7/7: The celebration of Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母 is organized by Jingliu 井刘 and Liucuo 刘厝. 7/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is organized by the Hudao shuyuan 壶岛书院. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is organized by Xiapo 下坡. 9/9: The celebration of Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅 is organized by Dacuo 大厝. 9/18: The celebration of Zhengyi lingguan Ma yuanshuai 正一灵官马元帅 is organized by Dingpo 顶坡. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days, and sometimes for three days. These events are organized by the neigbourhood specified, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis within the specific territorial unit. 5. Ritual groups The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 has a temple management committee 董事会 made up of representatives of each neighborhood and Overseas Chinese representatives. The Xiangongtang 仙宫堂 and the Feiyunguan 飞云馆 both have tanban 坛班 altar associations of spirit mediums and their assistants. In 1949 and in 1987 guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions were held. Since 1993 guanjie sessions have been held roughly once every three years, and each time the sessions last for seven days. On11/16 the Xiayuan pudu 下元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed by the Pengdaoci 蓬岛祠 Three in One scripture masters. 
V634 Tiantou 田头 1. Village settlement Tiantou village belongs to Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is over 1000 people. There are lots of Oversea Chinese. 2. Surname groups There are several surname groups in Tiantou including the Shê 佘, the Dong 董, the Lin 林. The Shê 佘 is the main surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Timingjing Chongxingshê 题名境重兴社 is within the Chongxingtan zumiao (founding temple) 重兴坛祖庙. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元 帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xiaogong shenghou 肖公圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, and Lisan mingwang 李三明王. The temple preserves a stele composed in Guangxu 13 (1887) entitled 重兴 坛祖庙禁约题捐碑 (Stele recording contributions to the renovation of the Chongxingtan Founding Temple along with its regulations) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:345, No. 309). 2) Chengbentang 承本堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11–14, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 lead a procession through the village, and Daoist masters are invited to conduct a pingan jiao 平安醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held, and opera is performed for two days. 2/5: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for three days. 4/8: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held and opera is performed for three days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups The Chongxingtan zumiao 重兴坛祖庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. Since 1990 the temple has organized guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions three times. Each year Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility on the basis of age. 
V635 Houdong 后董 1. Village settlement Houdong village belongs to the Houguo Administrative Village 后郭行政村. The village population is over 300 people. 2. Surname groups There are two surname groups in the village, the Guo 郭 and the Kang 康. The Kang are the major surname, and the Guo moved to the village from Houguo. 3. Village temples 1) Yuhujing Xinyishê 玉湖境新义社 is inside the Wudangong 武当宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Wuwei shenghou 五位圣侯. 2) Yubentang 玉本堂 was first built in Qing Daoguang period (1821–1850), and is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/15, the villagers take the incense burners of the shê to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist masters are invited to conduct a pingan jiao 平安醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held and opera is performed for two to three days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held and opera is performed for three days. 9/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held, and opera is performed for two to three days. 5. Ritual Groups Each year Fushou 福首 are rotated into positions of responsibility on the basis of age. 
A141 Aoshan qijing (Aoshan sevenfold ritual alliance) 鳌山七境 The Aoshan sevenfold ritual alliance is located alongside the sea in hilly country. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the Hanjiang area 涵江. This area was part of the Tiantou Houguopu 田头后郭铺 and Ketingchengpu 柯亭埕铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the Ming, the village of Yansun 岩浔 was settled in this region. The current population of the region is over 8000 people, living in the six villages of Houhuang 后黄, Aoli 澳里, Xiashê 下社, Xiake下柯, Dingke 顶柯, and Qitou 歧头, all of which are managed by the Aoshan Administrative Village 鳌山行政村. The temple ritual system is divided on the basis of she-altars and temples into seven independent ritual units. The Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 (founding temple), located in Aoshan 鳌山 village, on top of Yanzhen mountain 雁阵山, is the main temple for the sevenfold ritual alliance 七境总宫. This temple is commonly referred to as the Yanxungong 岩浔宫. The main gods are Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘. Secondary gods include Fushan shenghou 孚善圣侯 (Chen Yinggong 陈应功), Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯, Miaoguan dashi 妙观大师 and Zhaogong dashuai 赵公太师. On lunar 1/6 the birthday of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is celebrated. Each of the subsidiary villages takes turns sponsoring opera at the main temple. Dingke 顶柯 village carries the goddess back to watch opera every year at this time. Lunar 6/10 is the birthday of Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君. The Toujing 头境 (consisting of the villages of Houhuang 后黄, Aoli 澳里 and Xiashe下社, the Zhong (middle) jing (ritual territory) 中境 (made up of Xiake 下柯 and Dingke 顶柯), and the Wei (tail) jing 尾境 (ritual territory—made up of Qitou village 歧头) take turns sponsoring opera performances, which go on for at least ten days. In addition, each lunar 3/19 the celebration of Huiji shenghou 惠济圣侯 is held, and on lunar 4/14 the birth 
A141 Aoshan qijing sevenfold ritual alliance day of Fushan shenghou is celebrated 孚善圣侯. On these occasions there are also several days of opera performances. These activities are organized by the temple management committee, which is made up of representatives of each of the ritual territories. The Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 has an altar dedicated to the spirit mediums of the past (历代古坛). Currently there are over ten spirit mediums, and they have already undergone four rounds of spirit medium training guanjie 关戒. Each spirit medium training session lasts for at least one week, and the training concludes with a climbing of a ladder of swords. Subsidiary to the temple are the following shê altars: Huangan zushê 皇安祖社, Huangan xinshê 皇安新社, Huangan Qianshê 皇 安前社, Tiechang zushê 铁场祖社, Tiechang dongshê 铁场东社, Tiechang zhongshê 铁场中社, Xinxing shangshê 新兴上社, and Shayuan zushê 沙园 祖社. This alliance is referred to as the seven ritual territories and eight shê altar alliance 七境八社. 
V636 Houhuang 后黄 1. Village settlement The village population is over 580 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surname groups in the village, the Huang 黄, Chen 陈, and Zhao 赵. The Chen are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Huangan zushê 皇安祖社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huanganting 皇安亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years. Opera is performed for two days. 5/20: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held every three years. Opera is performed for four days. 5. Ritual Groups Houhuang has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V637 Aoli 澳里 1. Village settlement The village population is over 600 people. 2. Surname groups There are three surname groups in the village, the Lin 林, the Wei 魏, and the Zheng 郑. The Lin are the major surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Xinxing shangshê 新兴上社 was built in 1923, and belongs to the Lin 林 and the Wei 魏. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Tiechang zhongshê 铁场中社 belongs to the Zheng 郑. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Yaozhutang 瑶珠堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Zhaogong yuanshuai 赵公元帅. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling Zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 takes place once every three years and opera is performed for four days. 10/28: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xinxing shengshê 新兴上社 is organized by the Lin 林 and the Wei 魏. Opera is performed for two days. 11/21: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Tiechang zhongshê’s 铁场中社 is organized by the Zheng 郑. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Aoli has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V638 Xiashê 下社 1. Village settlement The village population is over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The Chen 陈 are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tiechang dongshê 铁场东社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Fushan shenghou 孚善圣侯, and Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯. 2) Yuanmingtang 圆明堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 3) Guanghuatang 光华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 and Mile fozu 弥勒佛祖. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 the incense burners of the shê altar are taken to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held every nine years. Opera is performed for two days. 4/12: The celebration of Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯 is held and opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling Zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held once every three years. Opera is performed for four days. 8/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Xiashê has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V639 Xiake 下柯 1. Village settlement Xiake was originally called Ketingcheng 柯亭埕. The village population is over 1200 people. 2. Surname groups The two major surnames are the Lin 林 and the Chen 陈. The Lin are the dominant surname group. 3. Village temples 1) Tiechang zushê 铁场祖社 is shared with Dingke 顶柯 village. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12, Xiake, together with Dingke, take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is celebrated once every nine years, together with Dingke. Opera is performed for two days. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaolilng zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, together with Dingke 顶柯. Opera is performed for four days. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held together with Dingke 顶柯. Opera is performed for two days. 5. Ritual Groups Xiake has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V640 Dingke 顶柯 1. Village settlement Dingke was originally called Ketingcheng 柯亭埕. The village has a population of over 500 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Ke 柯. The Ke are the dominant surname group, and are related to the Ke of Xiake 下柯. 3. Village temples 1) Sanxuanmiao 三喧庙 is dedicated to Zhushen dadi 注天大帝. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, and Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅. 2) Dazunmiao 达尊庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12 Dingke, together with Xiake, take the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held by going to the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 and inviting the god to watch the opera, which is performed for two days. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with two days of opera. 3/28: The celebration of Zhutian dadi 注天大帝 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, together with Xiake 下柯. Opera is performed for four days. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/28: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held together with Xiake 下柯. Two days of opera are performed. 5. Ritual Groups Dingke has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. 
V641 Qitou 歧头 1. Village settlement Qitou was originally called Yanzhen 雁阵. The village population is over 2400 people. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Gong 龚, the Huang 黄, and the Liu 刘. The Gong have the most people. The Huang moved from Haungxiang 黄巷 and claim to be the descendants of Huang Gongdu 黄公度. 3. Village temples 1) Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 belongs to the Gong 龚. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 belongs to the Liu 刘, and is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 belongs to the Huang 黄 and is also dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 4) Tonglingmiao 通灵庙 is dedicated to Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 5) Beiyuandian 北元殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Nandou xingjun 南斗 星君, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, and Dujian dadi 都监大帝. 6) Qingandong 清安洞 is dedicated to Lubu dashen 鲁部大神. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 and Zhanggong shengjun 张公星君. 7) Yuanhuatang 源华堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 8) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods are Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 9) Wanglinggong 万灵宫 is dedicated to Xiling Kongdaren 西岭孔大人. Secondary gods include Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. 10) Sanhuitang 三会堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:8 records 1580 initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, each shê community takes the incense burners of its shê altar to each household in its own territory to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/6: The celebration of Cigan niangniang 慈感娘娘 is held once every nine years, and opera is performed for two days. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 Sandian zhenjun 三殿 真君 is held once every three years, and two days of opera are performed. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held with two days of opera. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan qianshê 皇安前社 is organized by the Huang 黄. 9/4: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Shayuan zushê 沙园祖社 is organized by the Gong 龚. 9/12: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Huangan xinshê 皇安新社 is organized by the Liu 刘. 5. Ritual Groups Qitou village has spirit mediums 神童 who participate in the Zhaoling zumiao 昭灵祖庙 guanjie 关戒 training sessions. Unusually, on 6/13 the Lanpen pudu 兰盆普度 rites of Universal Deliverance are performed. In most of the Putian area, these rites take place around the Xiayua (lower prime 10/15) rather than around Zhongyuan (7/15) which is more common in Minnan areas and elsewhere in China. 
A142 Jingshan sancun (Jingshan three village ritual alliance) 鲸山三村 The Jingshan three village ritual alliance is located in the hills alongside the sea. Water for irrigation comes primarily from the irrigation canals in Hanjiang. This area was part of the Xiaoshanpu 小山铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里sub-canton. In the early Qing, this area was subject to the coastal evacuation policy. Currently the area has the three villages of Shishan 石山, Dongcheng 东埕, and Xinputou 新埔头. These villages are managed by two Administrative Village committees (Jingshan 鲸山 and Yangfang 杨 芳行政村). The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars into five shê ritual associations. The Xingxian baoshê 兴贤宝社 temple of Xinputou village is the founding shê of the five shê of the alliance. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Each year at Yuanxiao, each of the shê of the alliance comes to the temple to invite the gods back with them. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the five shê of Jingshan were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V642 Dongcheng 东埕 1. Village settlement Dongcheng village belongs to the Jingshan Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The village population is approximately 400 people, living in about 100 households. The main livelihood comes from vegetable gardening. 2. Surname groups With the exception of a single Xu 许 household, all the residents of Dongcheng village are surnamed Huang 黄. The Huang moved to Dongcheng from Huangxiang, where there are still ancestal tombs and an ancestral hall. 3. Village temples 1) Dongshanjing Xingxian qianshê 东山境兴贤前社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Dongshanjing Beijidian 东山境北极殿 is dedicated to Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Huanggong shenghou 黄公圣侯, Chengong shenghou 陈公圣侯, Wugong yuanshuai 伍公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Sanyuan dajiang 三元大将, Li shizhe 李使者, and Guo shizhe 郭使者. Jingshan three village ritual alliance 3) Wuxintang 悟心堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Chen Zhida 陈智达, and Liang Puyao 梁普耀 (the latter two being leaders of the Three in One in the late Qing and early Republican period). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 and Sanyuan dajiang 三元大将, accompanied by their spirit mediums 神童, go on a procession around the village. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rituals 做醮, and movies are shown in the temple courtyard. On 1/15, taking part in the procession within the territory of Shishan Xingxian dongshê 石山兴贤东社. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held with two days of opera. 6/10: The celebration of Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 is held with two days of opera. 6/13: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held with two days of opera. 10/10: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are five spirit medium 神童 in the village, who have been through one guanjie 关戒 training session. 
V643 Shishan 石山 1. Village settlement Shishan is also known as Xiaoshan 小山. Shishan village belongs to the Jingshan Village Administrative Village 鲸山行政村. The current population is approximately 3300 people living in around 600 households. The main livelihood is aquaculture, raising seafood and fishing. According to people in Dongcheng village 东埕 the shore of Shishan and its dams originally belonged to Dongcheng, and only later were seized by the villagers of Shishan. At the moment this is under litigation. There have been many conflicts over these issues in the past as well. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Chen 陈 and the Huang 黄. The Chen are more numerous and live mostly in Qianzhi 前至 neigbourhood. The Chen moved to Shishan from Kuokou 阔口. The Huang 黄 live in Houzhi 后至 neighborhood, and came from Huangxiang 黄巷. 3. Village temples 1) Jingshanjing Ganyinmiao (also called the Hunyuandian) 鲸山境感应庙(混元殿) which contains the Xingxian shexue 兴贤社学. This temple has as its subsidiaries the Dongshê (eastern) 东社, Xishê (western) 西社, and the Nanshê (southern) 南社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人, as well as Taishang laojun 太上老君. Secondary gods include Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Shuiguan dadi 水官大人, Lingshi shengwang 灵石圣王 (Shitai zhenren 石胎真人), Fude zhengshen 福 德正神, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Oushi xiangu 欧氏仙姑, and Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xianfeng 11 (1861) entitled 重修混元殿碑记 (Stele on the restoration of the Temple of Chaotic Origin) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 286). 2) Jingshanjing wudanggong 鲸山境武当官 is also known as the Huting (Tiger pavilion) 虎亭. It is said that the Tiger taming Monk Hufu zushi Huang Miaoying 伏虎祖师黄妙应 once traveled here and carved a stone tiger and a stele as a mark of his progress. The main god is Xuantian shangdi 玄天 上帝. Secondary gods include Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Beidou xingjun 北斗星君, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, Tiangang 天罡, Dikui 地魁, Shi zuoye 史佐爷, Zheng zuoye 张佐爷, Daye 大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Wubentang 悟本堂 (Wuben shuyuan 悟本书院) was founded by Chen Zhida 陈智达 in the late Qing, and is the main temple of the Wuben branch of the Three in One religious movement 悟本派总堂, and so is independent of the Dongshan zuci 东山祖祠 in Putian. This claims to be the first temple in the Three in One movement to hold the Lanpen 兰盆 rites of Universal Deliverance. The main god is Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Puyao Liang xiansheng 普辉梁先生, Zhida Chen xiansheng 智达 陈先生, Zhihui Liu xiansheng 智瑞刘先生, Weituo 韦驮, Shijia 释迦, and Jialan 迦兰. The SJCDCB, 1992: 8 lists 340 initiates. 5) Wuxintang 悟心堂 in Qiancuo 前厝 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一 教主. 6) Jingyuean 净月庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 迦蓝. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/13–14, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian nanshê 兴贤南社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/15, the Huang 黄 of Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. On 1/16, the Chen 陈 of Xingxian xishê 兴贤西社 take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/15: The celebration of Taishang laojun 太上老君 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 8/1: The celebration of Oushi xianfei 欧氏仙妃 is held. 8/22: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 10/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is held. 12/26: The celebration of Daye 大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are spirit mediums 神童 in the village but they have no guanjie 关戒 training. Formerly they set up an altar 设坛 for their activities. Shishan has over 400 initiates in its Three in One temple. The temple standing committee 常务理事 has over a dozen members. On 7/29 the Wubentang 悟本堂 performs the Zhongyuan pudu 中元普度 rites of Universal Deliverance and marionette plays are performed. 
V644 Xinpotou 新坡头 1. Village settlement Xinpotou is also know as Xinputou 新浦头. Xinpotou belongs to the Yangfang administrative village 杨芳行政村. The village population is approximately 400 people. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Huang 黄 and the Zhuo 卓. 3. Village temples 1) Jinpojing Xingxian baoshê 锦坡境兴贤宝社: The main gods are Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Dutong shenghou 都统圣侯, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. 2) Jinpojing Wenshendian 锦坡境温神殿 is dedicated to Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 3) Baohutang 宝壶堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Aoshanjing Xingxian dongshê 鳌山境兴贤东社 belongs to the Huang of Shishan 石山黄. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 5) Yongming baoguosi 永明报国寺 was first built in the Ming Wangli period (1572–1620) and was rebuilt in the Republican period, and has been restored in recent years. This temple belongs to the twenty-four jing (ritual territories) of the entire Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里二十四境. The Dabaidian 大悲殿 is dedicated to Rulai fozhu 如来佛主. Secondary gods include Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Weituo zunzhe 韦驮尊者. The Jiuxiaodong 九宵洞 is dedicated to the Baxian (the Eight Immortals) 八仙, and the Jiuxian (Nine Immortals 九仙. The Xinjiapo (Singapore) Qiongsantang 新加坡琼三堂, is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Zhang Sanfeng 张三峰, Zhuo zhenren 卓真人, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, and Fude zhengshen 福德正神. Chaoyang shuyuan 朝阳书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. These gods were returned to Putian when the temple in Singapore closed down. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11, the Zhou 卓 take the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, the Huang 黄, together with the Shishan Xingxian dongshê 石山兴贤东社, take the banners and incense burners of Taishang laojun 太上老君 to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums 神童 go on a procession through their community. Birthday celebrations of the gods 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is held. 6/3: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian baoshê 兴显宝社 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 8/11: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Xingxian dongshê 兴贤东社 is organized by the Chen of Shishan 石山陈. 11/1: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by neigbourhood, or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Wenshenmiao 温神庙 has spirit mediums 神童, but they do not undergo guanjie 关戒 training. 
A143 Yangfang liushê (Yangfang six shê ritual alliance) 杨芳六社 The Yangfangsix shê ritual alliance is located in hilly country near the sea. Water for irrigation comes from the irrigation canals of Hanjiang. This area was part of the Zengfangpu 曾方铺 and Sulinpu 苏林铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. In the early Qing, the villages of Dongfang 东坊, Shangyuan 上园, Houzeng 后曾, Dongzeng 东曾, Qianlin 前林, and Lingtou 岭坑 were settled. Currently this area is managed by the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The Tianhougong 天后宫 temple, located in Xilin 西林 village, is the main temple of the ritual alliance. The main goddess is Tianshang shengmu 天上 
A143 Yangfang six shê ritual alliance 圣母. Each year with an intercalary third lunar month, the goddess is carried in a procession around the villages of the alliance. In the feuding banner alliances of the end of the Qing, the six shê of Yangfang were all part of the black banner alliance. 
V645 Shangmei 上梅 1. Village settlement Shangmei was originally called Shangyuan 上园. Shangmei belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. In ancient time, together with Xizeng 西曾 and Houzeng 后曾, the area was called Zenggongmu (the Zeng tombs) 曾公墓. The village population of Shangmei is over 300 people living in 84 households. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname in the village, and that is the Zeng 曾. The Zeng came from Guangdong 广东 and are now into their tenth generation in the village. They have divided into four lineage branches 四房. The original Zeng family ancestral hall 曾氏祖祠 has been rebuilt, and there is collective worship of the ancestors 祭祖合祭. 3. Village temples Shadijing Xinzhongshê 沙堤境新中社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Huanggong ershi 黄公二使. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the villagers join up with Houzeng 后曾 to together carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and guacai 挂彩 (paste up New Years couplets). Birthday celebrations of the gods 8/15: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 
V646 Houzeng 后曾 1. Village settlement Houzeng belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. There are currently about 60 households in the village. 2. Surname groups There is only one surname, the Zeng, and they are related to the Zeng of Shangmei 上梅. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Changxingshê 沙堤境长兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 2) Shunhemiao 顺和庙 is dedicated to Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Tongling shifu 通灵师父, Lingong shifu 林公师父, and Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅. 3) Shengzhu shuyuan 圣珠书院 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10 the villagers join up with those of Shangmei to together carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and to guacai 挂彩. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/16: The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held with two days of opera. 5/14: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 8/23: The celebration of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅) is held with half a month of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are several score of Three in One initiates 门人 in Houzeng village. 
V647 Dongzeng 东曾 1. Village settlement Dongzeng belongs to the Yangfang administrative village 杨芳行政村 The current village population is approximately 500 people. 2. Surname groups Dongzeng is a single surname village—the Zeng 曾 are related to the Zeng of Houzeng. There is a Zeng ancestral hall 曾姓祖祠. 3. Village temples 1) Shadijing Beijidian 沙堤境北极殿 contains the altar of the Xinzhongshê 新中社. This is the main temple of the Shati ritual territory 沙堤境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Dufei niangniang 都妃娘娘, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Baihu jiangjun 白虎将军. 2) Shadijing Nanqinggong 沙堤境南清宫 is jointly owned with Houzeng 后曾 and Shangmei 上梅. The main gods are Qinming Baidaren 钦命白大人, Weng daren 翁大人, Tian daren 田大人, Yang daren 杨大人, and He daren 何大人. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu furen 鲁府夫人, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Chen daye 陈大爷, and Erye 二爷. 3) Chengguangtang 诚光堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Sanguan dadi 三官大帝, Jiutian Tiangong yuanshuai 九天 田公元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, Guangze zunwang 广泽尊王, and Chenshi dage 陈氏大哥. 4) Shanggeting 上阁亭 is famous for responding to prayers for rain 祈雨有 灵. The temple’s reputation reached to Putian city. The main god is Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/11 the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held with two days of opera. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with two days of opera. 11/14: The celebration of the five Daren 五大人 surnamed Bai 白, Weng 翁, Tian 田, Yang 杨, He 何 is held with two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. There are thirty older spirit medium 神童 and forty younger spirit mediums 神童. 
V648 Xilin 西林 1. Village settlement Xilin was originally called Qianlin 前林. Xilin belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The village population is over 1540 people. The main livelihood is farming and pulling carts. 2. Surname groups The two main surnames are the Zeng 曾 and the Lin 林. The Zeng 曾 came from Nanfeng in Jiangxi 江西南丰. First they moved to Hetou 河头 near Putian and later to Xilin 西林. They are now in their eighth generation and have divided into six lineage branches. The Zeng of Jikui 集奎 and Xialin 下林 come to Xilin to worship their ancestors. The ancestral tombs have however been flattened and destroyed. 3. Village temples 1) Xihujiung Tianhougong 西湖境天后宫 contains the altar of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and is the main temple of the Yangfang seven fold village alliance 杨芳七境总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, and Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅. 2) Yinghu shuyuan 应湖书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. 3) Xinghu shuyuan 兴湖书院 is dedicated to Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣. 4) Mingyitang 明义堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions 1/10 the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village and seal the roadways against demonic influences 封路. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/10: The celebration of Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 is held with two days of opera. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held with two day of opera. Each year with an intercalary third month there is a procession around the entire sevenfold village alliance. 4/12: The celebration of Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯 is held with two days of opera. 4/27: The celebration of Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中天大圣 is held with two days of opera. 7/7: The celebration of Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅 is held with two days of opera. 8/4: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held with at least two days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups The Tianhougong 天后宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association, with over sixty spirit mediums 神童 and their assistants. There have been guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions three times. 
V649 Dongfang 东坊 1. Village settlement Dongfang was originally called Dongfang 东方. Dongfang belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The current village population is over 1200 people. 2. Surname groups Dongfang is a single surname village, surnamed Lin. The Lin have divided into six lineage branches. 3. Village temples 1) Xiatang shengjing Xinanshê 霞塘胜境新安社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公 圣君and Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 2) Andingtang 安定堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, and Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者. 3) Shanggeting 上阁亭 is renowned for its responses to prayers for rain 祈雨有灵 and its reputation extends to Putian city. The temple is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, the villagers carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Spirit mediums lead the procession of the gods through the village. On 1/18, the ritual of the handing over of the duties of the Fushou 福首交接 is held, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. The celebration of Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主 is held. The celebration of Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 is held. The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Xinanshê 新安社 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants 神童(道友) of whom there are now over fifty. The practice is to hold guanjie 关戒 training sessions once every three years, and then to hold a Yuxiu gongde ritual 预修功德. Each year six Fushou 福首 are selected by rotation according to age. 5/25: 7/15: 7/17: 7/23: 11/7: 
V650 Lingdou 岭兜 1. Village settlement Lingdou was originally Lingkeng 岭坑. Lingdou belongs to the Yangfang Administrative Village 杨芳行政村. The current village population is approximately 400 people. The village is divided by surname into Fengan zhongshê 丰安中社 and Fengan Nanshê 丰安南社. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames are the Xu 徐, the Huang 黄, the He 何, and the Wu 吴. 3. Village temples 1) Longshanjing Tongxiaodian 龙山境通霄殿 contains the altar of the Fenganzhong shê 丰安中社. The main gods are Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Zhengyi tianshi 正一天师, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 2) Longshanjing Longshangong 龙山境龙山宫 contains the altar of the Fengan nanshê 丰安南社. The main gods are Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Xiaogong shengzhe 肖公圣者, Jixiang dajiiang 吉祥大将, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Sanwei xiangu 三位仙姑, and Ma Jia dajiang 马贾大将. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the He 何 and the Wu 吴 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on a procession around their territory. On 1/14, the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄 carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on a procession around their territory. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is organized by the He 何 and the Wu 吴. 3/16: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is organized by the He 何 and the Wu 吴. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is organized by the Xu 徐 and the Huang 黄. 10/10: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fengan nanshê 丰安南社 is held. 10/15: The celebration of the Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 of the Fengan zhongshê 丰安中社 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days These events are organized by surname group or by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Beijidian 北极殿 has a tanban 坛班 altar association with thirty older spirit mediums and forty younger spirit mediums 神童. 
A144 Duotou shiwu shê (Duotou fifteen shê ritual alliance) 哆头十五社 The Duotou three village ritual alliance is located alongside the dikes by the sea facing the Xinghua 兴化 bay southwest of Hanjiang 涵江. Water for irrigation comes from irrigation canals from the Hanjiang area. These villages once belonged to the Duotoupu 哆头铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli 望江里. This area was originally a series of salt-fields, where sea salt was dried by the sun and gathered for sale. In the early Qing, this area was subject to the coastal evacuation policy. Currently the population exceeds 12,000 people. This region is managed by the Duoqian 哆前, Duozhong 哆中, and Duohou 哆后 Administrative Villages. The Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 of Duoqian 哆前 and the Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 of Duohou 哆后 are the main temples of the three village alliance 三村总宫. Each year during the Yuanxiao festival, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃 of Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 is carried on a procession to each village in the alliance. Every four years, the Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 of Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 also goes on a procession to each village in the alliance. Every six years, the Zhusheng dadi of the Dongyuedian 东岳殿注生大帝 is carried in a procession through all the villages of the alliance. Duotou fifteen shê ritual alliance 
V651 Duoqian 哆前 1. Village settlement Duoqian is both a natural village as well as an administrative village The population of Duoqian is approximately 3000 people. The village is divided into the three shê of Xinxing 新兴, Qianhu 前湖, and Kaiming 开明三社. 2. Surname groups The main surnames in Duoqian are the Li 李, the Chen 陈, the Lin 林, the huang 黄, and the Xiao 肖. The Li are the main surname, and there is a Li ancestral home 李氏祖厝 in the village. 3. Village temples 1) Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 (also called Beijidian 北极殿) contain the altars of the Xinxingshê 新兴社 and the Qianhu shushê 前湖书社. The temple is also referred to as the Qianhugong 钱湖宫. The main gods are Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Huanggong ershi 黄公二使, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Fazhu xianfei 法主仙妃, Tuzhu zhenren 土主真人, Lingguan dadi 灵官大帝, Huiying shenghou 惠应圣侯, Liesheng shenghou 烈侯圣王, Wuhua tongzi 五华童子, Jinma tongzi 金马童子 Zhaoli daye, 昭利大爷 and Erye 二爷. 2) Tongmingdian 通明殿 is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇至尊. 3) Haoranmiao 浩然庙 is dedicated to Xietian dadi 协天大帝. Secondary gods include Ma jiangjun 马将军 and Puji shenghou 普济圣侯. 4) Mingdean 明德庵 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 5) Qingyuanci 清源祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records only one initiate at this temple. 6) Fuyuanan 福源庵 was built in 1943 (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the Fushou of each she carry the incense burners of the shê altar to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. Every four years the god goes on a procession on this day through the three villages of the Duotou ritual alliance. 4/1: The celebration of Zhaoli daye 昭利大爷 and Erye 二爷 is held. 4/15: The celebration of Huiying shenghou 惠应圣侯 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/1: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. On each of these occasions, opera is performed for three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Zhaolimiao 昭利庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, and has completed guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training. Duoqian has a hereditary family of Daoist ritual masters 祖传道士. 
V652 Duozhong 哆中 1. Village settlement Duozhong is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Duozhong is approximately 3000 people. The village is divided into the two shê called Fuxingshê 福兴社 and Wenxiashê 文霞社. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, Li 李, and Zeng 曾. The Li 李 are the most numerous. They moved to Duozhong from Yangwei 洋尾. Each year on 9/11 they go to Dongzhen to sweep the tombs of their ancestors, and to worship them. The Chen have less than 500 people in Duozhong. The Zeng are even less numerous. They are related to the Zeng of Dongzeng 东曾, and Houzeng 后曾. 3. Village temples 1) Lianzhujing Fuxingshê 联珠境福兴社 and Tianshanggong 天上宫(also called the Lianzhugong 联珠宫) is said to have been founded in the Song dynasty. The temple was repaired in the Qing Qianlong, Daoguang, and Xuantong periods. The temple originally belonged to Xilin 西林 but later Xilin divided incense and built its own Tianhougong 天后宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人 and Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母. Secondary gods include Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Beidou zhongtian dasheng 北斗中 天大圣, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Zhugong shenghou 朱公圣侯, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, and Boye 伯爷. The temple preserves a stele composed in Xuantong 1 (1909) by Shi Guanghua 石光华 entitled 重修联珠宫志 (Account of the restoration of the Temple of Linked Pearls) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:310, No. 275). 2) Aotoujing Wenxia dashê 鳌头境文霞大社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Puhua tianzun 普化天尊, Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军, and Wenwu liesheng 文武列圣. This temple preserves a stele composed in Tongzhi 2 (1863) entitled 重修文 霞社记 (Record of the repairs to the Literary Aurora shê temple) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:324, No. 288). 3) Dongyuedian 东岳殿 and the Baiyundong 白云洞 have an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. The main gods are Zhutian dadi 注天大帝, and Baigong daren 白公大人. Secondary gods include Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Lufu dashen 鲁府大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅, Penggong yuanshuai 蓬公元帅, Tiangong daren 田公 大人, Jingong daren 金公大人, Magong daren 马公大人, Xiaogong daren 萧公大人, Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军, Kuaili jiangjun 快吏将军, Lihe tongzi 李鹤童子, and Shichun tongzi 十春童子. 4) Qingyundong 青云洞 is dedicated to Tiangong daren 田公大人, Wenggong daren 翁公大人, and Jingong daren 金公大人, Secondary gods include Dongshizhe 东使者, and Xishizhe 西使者. 5) Weilingmiao 威灵庙 originally belonged to Dongzeng 东曾. The main god is Mei boye 梅伯爷. 6) Jindetang 金德堂 was built in Qing Jiaqing period (1796–1820) and is dedicated to Shidian yanwang 十殿阎王. The temple is considered the ancestral temple of the Longhuajiao movement in Putian. The temple preserves two stelae, the first composed in Xianfeng 7 (1857) entitled 重修金 德堂碑记 (Stele inscription on the renovation of the Hall of Golden Virtue) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:320, No. 285), and a second stele composed in Tongzhi 12 (1867) entitled 金德堂题捐祀业碑 (Stele listing the names of those who contributed to the sacrificial found of the Hall of Golden Virtue) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:329, No. 293). 7) Ganluting 甘露亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士 8) Nanbaotang 南宝堂 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 9) Houyunge 厚云阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 10) Meixingan 梅性庵 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮, and Jialan 伽蓝. 11) Taoyuan zuci 涛源祖祠 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records twenty-four initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9–10, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅 of the Wenxiashê 文霞社 is carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11–12, Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 of Fuxingshê 福兴社文霞社 is carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/1: The celebration of Tian 田, Jin 金, and Weng 翁 Daren 大人 is held. Each year with an intercalary second month these gods go on procession through the entire village. 4/9: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 3/23: The celebration of Tianshang shengmu 天上圣母 is held. 3/28: The celebration of Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝 is held. 4/15: The celebration of Caoli jiangjun 曹吏将军 and Zhugong daren 朱公 大人 is organized by Fuxingshê 福兴社. 6/24: The celebration of Mei boye 梅伯爷 is held. 7/1: The celebration of Lubu dashen 鲁部大神 is held. 8/6: The celebration of Bai daren 白大人 is held. 8/18: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人诞 is organized by the Fuxingshê 福兴社 and the Wenxiashê 文霞社 separately. 9/18: The celebration of Li He tongzi 李鹤童子 is held. 9/19: The celebration of Guanyin dashi 观音大士 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two, and in some cases three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific shê and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Wenxiashê 文霞社 and the Dongyuedian 东岳殿 both have ancient altars to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, and continue to have spirit mediums 神童. 
V653 Duohou 哆后 1. Village settlement Duohou is both a natural village and an administrative village. The population of Duohou is over 6000 people. The village is divided into ten shê, or neighborhoods. These are Qianting 前亭, Xinzhong 新中, Houzhong 后中, Dongxing 东兴, Shangxing 上兴, Xida 西大, Gongbian 宫边, Dongcuo 东厝, Tianxia 田下, and Xincuo 新厝. 2. Surname groups The main surnames are the Zheng 郑, the Li 李, and the Zeng 曾. The Zheng are the main surname groups. 3. Village temples 1) Aotoujing Xinanshê 鳌头境新安社 and Zhaohuimiao 昭惠庙 is the main temple of the Duotou ritual alliance 哆头总宫. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃. Secondary gods include Puji shenghou 普济圣侯, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Mayuan jiangjun 马援将军, Lingtong tongzi 灵通童子, Guangli longwang 广利龙王, Wangdu yuanshuai 王都元帅, Gongli lingwang 功利灵王, Yanggong taishi 杨公大使, Yanggong ershi 杨公二使, Taishiye 大师爷, Mou yuanshuai 牟元帅, Zhu yuanshuai 朱元帅, Ding yuanshuai 丁元帅, and Luo yuanshuai 罗元帅. The temple preserves one stele composed in Daoguang 29 (1849) by Li Yangan 李彦幹 entitled 重修昭惠廟碑記 (Stele recording the repairs to the Temple of Shining Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:312, No. 278) and a second stele composed in 1927 entitled 重修昭惠庙碑记 (Stone inscription on the Temple of Shining Benevolence) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:365, No. 331). 2) Tianyundian 天云殿 was restored in 1982 and is dedicated to Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝. Secondary gods include Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Yuying shenghou 俞应圣侯, Nandou xingjun 南斗星君, and Beidou xingjun 北斗星君. 3) Dongyueguan 东岳殿 is owned by the three villages of the Duotou alliance together. Every sixty years the gods of the temple go on a procession through the entire ritual alliance. The main god is Zhusheng dadi 注生大帝. Secondary gods include Lubu dashen 鲁部大神, Lufu yima 鲁府姨妈, Tianqian shengmu 天前圣母, Xiaogong daren 萧公大人, Tiangong daren 田公 大人, Baigong daren 白公大人, Jingong daren, 金公大人, Magong daren 马公大人, Penggong daren 彭公大人, and Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅. 4) Renxianci 仁先祠 was built in the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1735), and is dedicated to Dizangwang pusa 地藏王普萨. 5) Guangfuci 广福祠 is dedicated to Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙. Secondary gods include Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, and Sanguan dadi 三官大帝. 6) Wanjinting 万金亭 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 7) Chongxingfu 崇兴府 is dedicated to Li dajiangjun 李大将军. 8) Shouyuan shuyuan 涛源书院 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. (SJCDCB, 1992: 9). 9) Tianyuantang 天源堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:9 records fourteen initiates. 10) Guangmingtang 光明堂 was built in the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:206). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/12–13, Wusheng xianfei 吴圣仙妃 goes on a procession throughout the Duotou ritual alliance. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival is held 总元宵 with opera for three days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 1/9: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is organized by the Tianyundian 天云殿. 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 3/15: The celebration of Guangli longwang 广利龙王 is held. 4/26: The celebration of Yanggong taishi 杨公太师 is organized by Xida 西大. 5/10: The celebration of Wang duyuanshuai 王都元帅 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 5/16: The celebration of Tiandi 天地 is organized by Tianyundian 天云殿. 8/1: The celebration of Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅 is organized by Tianyundian 天云殿. 8/15: The celebration of Li daren 李大人 is organized by Chongxingfu 重兴府. 8/21: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held and opera is performed for three days. 8/22: The celebration of Puji shenghou 普济圣侯 is organized by Tianxia 田下. 8/23: The celebration of Haotian dizi 昊天帝子 (Tiangong yuanshuai 田公 元帅) is organized by Qianting 前亭. 9/15: The celebration of Heshi jiuxian 何氏九仙 is organized by Guangfuci 广福祠. 9/28: The celebration of Mayang zungong 马洋尊公 is organized by Dongcuo 东厝. 11/1: The celebration of Zhugong yuanshuai 朱公元帅 is organized by Shangxing 上兴. On these occasions, unless otherwise specified opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific temples and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Zhaohui zumiao 昭惠祖庙 has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛, which is called the Lushan dafayuan 庐山大法院. Every twelve years there is a cycle of guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings. Each session lasts seven days. There is the climbing of sword ladders 爬刀梯 and the completion of the Yuxiu rites 预修 (preparatory cultivation for immortality) as the conclusion of the cycle of training. 
A145 Gaomei wucun (Gaomei five village ritual alliance) 高美五村 The Gaomei five village ritual alliance is located along the dikes by the side of the sea along the Xinghua Bay. Water for irrigation comes from the channels around Hanjiang. This area was part of the Baimeipu 百美铺 and Shanggang Tiancuopu 上港田厝铺 (police/defense unit) of Wangjiangli sub-canton 望江里. Originally, the region was devoted to salt fields by the side of the sea. In the early Qing, the villages of Shangfang 上方, Gaoli 高里, Biwei 泌尾, Bancheng 半埕 and Shanggang 上港 were settled. These areas are now managed by the Gaomei Administrative Village 高美行政村. The temple ritual system is divided according to she-altars and temples into four shê ritual associations. The Shouhainmiao 寿海庙 temple, located in Meiwei 美尾 village, was originally the main temple of the five village alliance. The main god was Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. It is said that formerly the god would go on processions. These collective processions and rites have not yet been revived. 
V654 Fengxiu 凤秀 1. Village settlement Fengxiu was originally called Gaoli 高里. The village population is over 500 people. 
A145 Gaomei five village ritual alliance 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Lin 林, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Su 苏 and the 蔡 are both related to people in Shanggang village 上港. 3. Village temples 1) Fengshanjing Yongxingshê 凤山境永兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 and Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐. 2) Luxingmiao 禄兴庙 is dedicated to Qincha Tiandaren 钦差田大人 and Ma daren 马大人. Secondary gods include Zhongjun 中军 and Canmou 参谋. 3) Chongshengtang 崇圣堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, Fengxiu village, together with Bancheng 半埕 village, takes the incense burners of the Yongxingshê 永兴社 to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao and go on procession within the territory. On 2/20–21, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 with opera performances for two days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 4/13: The celebration of Qincha Tian daren 钦差田大人 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐 is held. 7/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held together with Bancheng village 半埕. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/10: The celebration of Qinchai Ma daren 钦差马大人 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Yongxingshê 永兴社 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings were held in the Republican period, and again in 1980. 
V655 Bancheng 半埕 1. Village settlement The village population is approximately 900 people. 2. Surname groups The main surname is the Lin 林, and they are related to the Lin of Fengxiu 凤秀. 3. Village temples 1) Pantingjing Fuxinggong 泮庭境福星宫 contains the altar of the Yongxingshê 永兴社 and is dedicated to Yuhuang zhizun 玉皇 至尊, Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Qitian dash eng 齐天大圣, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Fude zhengshen 福德正神, Li daren 李大人, and Peng daren 彭大人. 2) Yitiantang 一天堂 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/8–9, the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 go on a procession through the village. On 2/1 the spring sacrifice in held 春祭 with opera for two days. Spirit mediums 神童 from nearby villages are invited to 采花 “pick flower-flames” (the spirit mediums undergo feats of pain by standing bare-chested in the flames of Roman candle fireworks) and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/3: The celebration of Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝 is held. 4/3: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. 5/5: The celebration of Leixian shengjie 雷贤圣姐 is held. 7/23: The celebration of Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. 10/7: The celebration of Peng daren 彭大人 is held. 10/19: The celebration of Li daren 李大人 is held. 11/10: The celebration of Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups The Fuxinggong 福星宫 has a tanban 坛班 altar association for spirit mediums and their assistants. This altar association claims to be part of the Jinlunyuan “金轮院” ritual tradition and has a Lushan altar “庐山之坛”. Guanjie 关戒 spirit medium trainings have been held twice, in 1982 and 1998. 
V656 Shangfang 上方 1. Village settlement The village population is over 680 people. 2. Surname groups The oldest surname is the Fang 方. There is a Fang lineage ancestral hall 方氏宗祠. The Su surname 苏 is the largest, with over 70% of the village population. The Cai 蔡 came from Xianyou 仙游. There are also surname groups who left Shangfang to settle elsewhere, such as the Dapu Wang 大埔王, the Aoshan Gong 鳌山龚 and the Gongxia Su 宫下苏. Currently there is a Fang lineage ancestral hall in Shangfang 方氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Aofangjing Xinyishê 鳌方境新义社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. Secondary gods include Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣, Taishang laojun 太上老君, Lingya jiangjun 灵牙将军, Youbi tongzi 右弼童子. The temple has an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛. 2) Duiyang shuyuan 对阳书院 is dedicated to Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君. Secondary gods include Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君, Luer baomu 鹿儿保母. 3) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records only two initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/14 the incense burners of the Xinyishê 新义社 are carried to each household to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/12: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后 土夫人 is held. 5/16: The celebration of Yuhuang dadi 玉皇大帝 is held. 7/7: The celebration of Zhongtian dasheng 中天大圣 is held. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held. On these occasions, opera is performed for two days These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is an altar to the Jinlunyuan 金轮院古坛 in the Xinyishê 新义社, and guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training sessions have occurred. 
V657 Shanggang 上港 1. Village settlement The village population is approximately 600 people. 2. Surname groups There are three main surnames, the Su 苏, the Cai 蔡, and the Chen 陈. The Su 苏 are the most numerous with over two thirds of the population. They used to have an ancestral hall but it has collapsed. 3. Village temples 1) Shanggangjing Aoxing shushê 上港境鳌兴书社 is inside the Beijidian 北极殿. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王, Houtu furen 后土夫人, and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军 and Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝. 2) Xushuangtang 续霜堂 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. Secondary gods include Shengcai tongzi 生财童子, Xianzhu longnü 献珠龙女, Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Tiankui 天魁, Dikui 地魁, Guansheng dijun 关圣帝君, Zhou Cang 周仓, Guan Ping 关平, and Ma zhongjun 马中军. 3) Huaguang chansi 华光禅寺 was built in the Ming and repaired in Qing Daoguang dingmei (1847) and in 1932. In recent years the Banduting 半渡亭 has been moved. The main god is Shijia mouni 释迦牟尼. Secondary gods include Weituo 韦驮 and Jialan 伽兰. 4) Huanyundong 华云洞 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/9 the gods of the Beijidian 北极殿 are taken on a procession around the village. On 1/23 the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/3: The birthday celebration of Xuantian shangdi is 玄天上帝 held. Opera is performed. Daoist masters are invited to conduct rituals. 8/23: The celebration of Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is held with two to three days of opera. 5. Ritual Groups There are two spirit medium 神童 in the village, each with an assistant 扶童. 
V658 Meiwei 美尾 1. Village settlement Meiwei was originally known as Biwei 泌尾. The village population is over 1500 people. 2. Surname groups The three main surnames are the Zhang 张, the Zeng 曾, and the Su 苏. The Su have kept a Su lineage ancestral hall 苏氏祠堂. 3. Village temples 1) Fushangong 福山宫 is dedicated to Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Heihu jiangjun 黑虎将军, Guogong daren 郭公大人, Wang zhongjun 王中军, and Li zhongjun 李中军. 2) Baimeijing Yixingshê 百美境义兴社 is dedicated to Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Shouhaimiao 寿海庙 was built in Qing Qianlong 53 (1788), and is dedicated to Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣. Secondary gods include Libu zhongjun 李部中军, Wangbu zhongjun 王部中军, and Guogong daren 郭公大人. 4) Qilinmiao 麒麟庙 is dedicated to Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑. 5) Ziyundong 紫云洞 is dedicated to Daren 大人. 6) Mingxiatang 明夏堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records twelve initiates. 7) Mingdetang Buddhist hall 明德堂 was built in 1930 (PTZJZCG, 1992:207). 8) Fuyansi Buddhist temple 福严寺 was built during the Guangxu period (1875–1908) (PTZJZCG, 1992:207). 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On 1/10, the Zhang 张 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/11, the Zeng 曾 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/12, the Sun 苏 take the incense burners of the shê to each of their households to xingdao 行道 practice the Dao. On 1/15, a general Yuanxiao festival is held 总元宵 and the Guogong daren 郭公大人 of Fushangong 福山宫 goes on a procession through the entire village. On 1/16, the spring sacrifice is held 春祭 and Daoist ritual masters conduct rites. Opera is performed for two days. Birthday celebrations of the gods 2/25: The celebration of Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣 is held. 3/15: The celebration of Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君 is held. 3/9: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人 is held. 8/15: The celebration of Guogong daren 郭公大人 is held and opera is performed for thirty days. 10/22: The celebration of Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑 is held. On these occasions, with the exception of the month of opera for Guogong daren 郭公大人, opera is performed for two days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There is an ancient altar to the spirit mediums of the past 历代古坛 in the shê temple, and guanjie 关戒 spirit medium training has occurred three times. Each year Fushou 福首 are selected by divination to organize the village rituals. 
A146 Xinpu sishê (Xinpu four shê ritual alliance) 新浦四社 
V659 Xinpu 新浦) 1. Village settlement The four shê alliance of Xinpu is located in the Sanjiangkou 三江口港 harbor. The principal source of water for irrigation is from the irrigation channels of Hanjiang. This area was part of the Beimepu 百美 铺 of Wangjiangli 望江里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the village of Xinpu was already settled. The current population of Xinpu is over 3000 people. The main livelihood is in transshipment of goods. 2. Surname groups The four main surnames of Xinpu are the Li 李, the Lin 林, the Chen 陈, and the Yu 俞. The Li are the Baitang Li 白塘李氏 from Yangwei 洋尾. 3. Village temples 1) Xingjiangjing Fushougong 星江境福寿宫 is said to have been built in the Yuan dynasty and rebuilt in Qing Kangxi 28 (1689), and restored in 1982. The main god is Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君. Secondary gods include Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Zhanggong shengjun 张公圣君, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Liugong yuanshuai 刘公元帅, Wengong yuanshuai 温公元帅, Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅, Dutian yuanshuai 都天元帅, Guanyin dashi 观音大士, Yangsheng zhongjun 杨圣中军, Jixiang miaojiang 吉祥妙将, Liming dajiang 李明大将, and Baiya jiangjun 白牙将军. 2) Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 includes the altars of the Chongxing Yushê 重兴俞社, Chongxing xishê 重兴西社, Chongxing Chenshê 重兴陈社, and 
A146 Xinpu four shê ritual alliance the Shangyuan Lishê 上元李社. The main gods are Zunzhu mingwang 尊主 明王 and Houtu furen 后土夫人. 3) Jiedaidian 接待殿 belongs to Lishê 李社 and was newly built in 1993. The main god is Jialuo dasheng 迦罗大圣, and secondary gods include Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 4) Zhaiqianmiao 寨前庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 5) Lipomiao 里坡庙 is dedicated to Fude zhengshen 福德正神. 6) Benyuantang 本源堂 is dedicated to Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼. 7) Qinghuage 清华阁 is dedicated to Guanyin dashi 观音大士. 8) Xingshengci 兴圣祠 is dedicated to Sanyi jiaozhu 三一教主. Secondary gods include Xuantian shangdi 玄天上帝, Faye 法爷, and Zhongjun 中军. 9) Xiabentang 夏本堂 is dedicated to Lin Lonjiang 林龙江. The SJCDCB, 1992:7 records fifty-eight initiates. 4. Rituals: Yuanxiao processions On ¼, the gods are welcomed back from heaven 接神 and opera is performed for three days. On 1/8, divination blocks are cast in Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 to decide the date of the Yuanxiao procession. On 1/15–18, Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Sima shengwang 司马圣王, Taiyi xiangu 太乙仙姑, Ciji zhenjun 慈济真君, Zhanggong shenghou 张公圣侯, and Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 are invited from Fushougong 福寿宫 to go on a procession through the entire village which lasts for three days. On 1/26 the Chongxing shushê 重兴书社 holds the spring sacrifice 春祭. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. On 1/ 28 the Fuxinggong 福兴宫 holds the spring sacrifice 春祭. Opera is performed for three days, and Daoist ritual masters are invited to conduct jiao rites 做醮. Birthday celebrations of the gods 3/6: The celebration of Zunzhu mingwang 尊主明王, Houtu furen 后土 夫人 is held. 3/17: The celebration of Xuantan yuanshuai 玄坛元帅 is held. 4/8: The celebration of Shijia mouni 释伽牟尼 and Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅 is organized by the Chongxing chenshê 重兴陈社. 5/13: The celebration of Sima shengwang 司马圣王 is organized by the Chongxing yushê 重兴俞社. 5/16: The celebration of Tiandi 天地 is held. 6/6: The celebration of Fude zhengshen 福德正神 is held. 6/19: The celebration of Guanyin 观音 is organized by the Chongxing Linshê 重兴林社. 11/9: The celebration of Jialuo dasheng 伽罗大圣 is organized by the Shangyuan Lishê 上元李社. On these occasions, opera is performed for two to three days. These events are organized by the village as a whole, or by specific temples and their communities, and funding is raised on a per capita basis. 5. Ritual Groups There are a total of eleven old and new spirit mediums 神童 in Xinpu. They belong to the Lushan dafayuan “庐山大法院”. They take part in the Yuanxiao spring sacrifices and perform exorcistic dances 行傩. Every ten to twelve years there are guanjie 关戒 training sessions. In 1993 the sessions lasted three days. PART FOUR THE JIULIYANG IRRIGATED PLAIN 九里洋水利系统 
A147 Jiangkou qijing (Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance) 江口七境 The Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance is located in the town of Jiangkou, which currently has a population of over 10,000 people. The town formed gradually through the merging together during the Ming dynasty of several fishing villages clustered along the south side of the mouth of the Qiulu 萩芦 River. This area is irrigated by a canal diverted from the Qiulu 萩芦 river at the Nanan 南安 weir. From there, the canal runs alongside the river till just north of Jiangkou 江口 town, where it divides into three main channels, one of which continues to flows alongside the Qiulu 萩芦 river into and around Jiangkou township. The other canals bring water through the other multi-village ritual alliances of the irrigated Jiangkou plain, before allowing the water to flow into the Xinghua Bay 兴化 through sluice-gates which are opened and closed depending on the tides. This area was part of three police/defense regions, the Yifangpu 义坊舖, Qinrenpu 亲仁舖 and Qinxiu fangpu 锦绣坊舖, all within the Daixianli 待贤里 sub-canton. In the Ming, the villages of Xiaoyi 孝义, Gangxia 港下, Qianhui 前会, Houdun 后墩, Liujing 刘井 and Duweitou 度围头 were settled. In the early Qing, the village of Xinjing 新井 separated off from Houdun 后墩 village. In the Republican period, Houdu 后度 village separated off from Xiaoyi 孝义 village. However, because Houdu village still participates in the Yuanxiao processions of the Xiaoyi Youshengguan temple 孝义佑圣观, there are still only seven independent ritual territories in the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance. The main temple of the Jiangkou sevenfold territory was originally the Zhenjundian 真君殿, dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君 and Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君 and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. This temple was torn down and converted into the Jinjiang 锦江 Middle School in the Republican period. This temple was dedicated to Sandian zhenjun 三殿真君, Wenchang dijun 文昌帝君, and Kuidou xingjun 魁斗星君. Formerly, on each Yuanxiao festival, the gods of the temple would go on procession through the sevenfold ritual alliance. Even the palanquins of the Dongyueguan 东岳观 would have to stay overnight in this temple. Since the temple is no longer extent, there is no longer any overall procession for the Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance. Nevertheless, each year on the birthday of Sandian Zhenjun 三殿真君 on lunar 6/10, one or two days of opera are performed to honor the god. Jiangkou sevenfold ritual alliance Jiangkou 江口 has an ancient altar to the soil and the harvest dating to the Song dynasty called the Xingxian zushê 兴贤祖社 in Qianhui 前会 village. This shê altar was rebuilt in Qing Qianlong 52 (1787). Each year on lunar 2/2 and on lunar 10/6 (the dates of the tou 头 (beginning) and weiya 尾牙 (ending) rites of the year), people come from all the villages of Jiangkou 江口 to worship at this temple. Jiangkou 江口 originally had thirty-six surname groups, and each surname lived in a defined area. Nowadays only fifteen surname groups remain, and each village is made up of mixed surname groups. However, at the level of the organization of village temple rituals, surname groups are still the primary mode of identification. In the feuding ritual alliances at the end of the Qing, the sevenfold ritual alliance of Jiangkou was part of the white banner alliance. Other significant temples in Jiangkou include a pagoda dedicated to Guanyin midway across a bridge over the Qiulu river that is said to have been founded in the Song (although the bridge was moved in the Ming). The Dongyueguan 东岳观 (Belvedere of the Eastern Peak), situated on the Amoy 厦门 to Foochow 福州 highway, claims to have been founded in the Song dynasty, but underwent a “reconstruction” in the Ming dynasty. The Dongyue guan 东岳观 serves to this day as the higher order temple for all the multi-village ritual alliances of the Jiangkou 江口 irrigated plain. Considerable resources have been invested in this temple from Overseas Chinese branch temples in Indonesia and by individual contributors. Large scaled emigration began in the late Qing, primarily to Singapore, Malaysia, and Indonesia, and successful sojourners returned to build impressive residences in the early Republican period. Remittances from Overseas Chinese relatives are an important aspect of local economic growth, which has boomed since 1980. The temple preserves many stelae, both ancient and modern, including: 1) Jiaqing 16 (1811) 重修东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:282, No. 246), 2) Jiaqing 18 (1813) 重修东岳观题捐芳名碑 (The fragrant names of the contributors to the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:283, No. 247); 3) Tongzhi 1 (1862) 兴化府为文昌东岳行宫示禁碑 (Stele proclaiming prohibitions at the Auxiliary Temple of the Eastern Peak dedicated to Wenchang) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:322, No. 287); 4) (1922) 重修东岳观题 捐芳名碑 (Stele listing the names of the contributors supporting the repair of the Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 328), 5) (1922) 重修锦江东岳观碑 (Stele on the restoration of the Jinjiang Eastern Peak Belvedere) (Epigraphical Materials, 1995:362, No. 327). Currently, the area is very prosperous, and four-story apartment blocks faced with white tile and with open shop fronts on the ground floor line the roads. Many villages in the Jiangkou area have undergone complete makeovers into something more closely resembling mini-urban developments. In most such cases, the temples have been left in their original locations, although they have been completed rebuilt or renovated two or three times in the past 25 years. Ritual celebrations are exceptionally extravagant, with considerable funding coming from visiting Overseas Chinese relations. The former Party Secretary of Jiangkou reported that, in the early ’80s, he could attend ritual related opera performances 250 days out of the year in the Jiangkou area. 
V660 Xiaoyi 孝义 1. Village settlement Xiaoyi is part of the Jiangkou 江口 town, and of the sevenfold ritual territorial alliance of Jiangkou 江口七境. The current population is over 3000. Xiaoyi is divided into seven shê (altars of the god of the soil and the harvest): the Shoushê 首社 (head she), the East shê 东 社, the Lishê 李社, the Lishê 荔社, the Xiajieshe 霞街社, the Guanqianshê 观前社 and the Houdushê 后度社. The main livelihood is in retail business and shop-keeping. There are many dependent families of Overseas Chinese. 2. Surname groups The main surname groups are the Chen 陈, the Li 李, the Ma 马, the Guo 郭, the Zhuo 卓, the Lu 卢, the Weng 翁, and the He 何. The Chen 陈 has the most people, at around 1000 people. Then it would be the Li 李, the He 何, and the Ma 马. It is said that the Chen came from Kuokou 阔口 of Putian 莆田, and are the Chen of Yuhu “玉湖陈”. There was originally a Chen ancestral hall 陈氏宗祠. There is also the newly built Chen Wenlong Memorial Hall 陈文龙纪念馆, built in front of the Youshengguan 佑圣观 in recent years, which is also referred to as the Erxiangtang 二相堂. The ancestral worship activities of each surname group are unknown. A few have, in recent years, rebuilt ancestral halls and begun to revive ancestral worship. 3. Village temples 1) The Youshengguan 佑圣观 is the main temple of the Xiaoyijing 孝义境, which contains the Lingxingshê 灵兴社: Built in the Ming Dynasty (or the Yuan Dynasty), it was renovated during the Qing Yongzheng period (1723–1735). The main god worshipped is Xuantian shangdi 玄 天上帝. Other gods include San tian duyuanshuai nezha 三天都元帅哪吒, Wuxian huaguang dadi 五显华光大帝 (also known as Zhengyi linggong 正一灵宫) Ma yuanshuai 马元帅, Jianlei yushi Zhanggong shengjun 监雷御 史张公圣君 (with the additional title of imperially enfeoffed Sanyuan boji zhenjun 敕封三元溥济真君), Qitian dasheng 齐天大圣, Shuntian shengmu 顺天圣母 (Mazu 妈祖), Tiangong yuanshuai 田公元帅, Kanggong yuanshuai 康公元帅, Chengong taiwei 陈公太尉, Tongling Jin dajiangjun 统领 金大将军, Lingxingshê gong ma 灵兴社公妈, and Wang zhongjun 王中军. 2) Xilin temple 西林寺: The stone inscription composed by Dongshi 董史 entitled 西林寺记 (Record of the Western Grove Monastery) is about this temple. (Epigraphical Materials, 1995: 214, No. 187). 3) Fushanan 福善庵. (PTZJZCG, 1992:210).